1599


MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING


by William Shakespeare



Dramatis Personae

  Don Pedro, Prince of Arragon.
  Don John, his bastard brother.
  Claudio, a young lord of Florence.
  Benedick, a Young lord of Padua.
  Leonato, Governor of Messina.
  Antonio, an old man, his brother.
  Balthasar, attendant on Don Pedro.
  Borachio, follower of Don John.
  Conrade, follower of Don John.
  Friar Francis.
  Dogberry, a Constable.
  Verges, a Headborough.
  A Sexton.
  A Boy.

  Hero, daughter to Leonato.
  Beatrice, niece to Leonato.
  Margaret, waiting gentlewoman attending on Hero.
  Ursula, waiting gentlewoman attending on Hero.

  Messengers, Watch, Attendants, etc.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



SCENE.--Messina.


ACT I. Scene I.
An orchard before Leonato's house.

Enter Leonato (Governor of Messina), Hero (his Daughter),
and Beatrice (his Niece), with a Messenger.

  Leon. I learn in this letter that Don Pedro of Arragon comes this
    night to Messina.
  Mess. He is very near by this. He was not three leagues off when I
    left him.
  Leon. How many gentlemen have you lost in this action?
  Mess. But few of any sort, and none of name.
  Leon. A victory is twice itself when the achiever brings home full
    numbers. I find here that Don Pedro hath bestowed much honour on
    a young Florentine called Claudio.
  Mess. Much deserv'd on his part, and equally rememb'red by Don
    Pedro. He hath borne himself beyond the promise of his age, doing
    in the figure of a lamb the feats of a lion. He hath indeed
    better bett'red expectation than you must expect of me to tell
    you how.
  Leon. He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much glad of it.
  Mess. I have already delivered him letters, and there appears much
    joy in him; even so much that joy could not show itself modest
    enough without a badge of bitterness.
  Leon. Did he break out into tears?
  Mess. In great measure.
  Leon. A kind overflow of kindness. There are no faces truer than
    those that are so wash'd. How much better is it to weep at joy
    than to joy at weeping!
  Beat. I pray you, is Signior Mountanto return'd from the wars or no?
  Mess. I know none of that name, lady. There was none such in the
    army of any sort.
  Leon. What is he that you ask for, niece?
  Hero. My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua.
  Mess. O, he's return'd, and as pleasant as ever he was.
  Beat. He set up his bills here in Messina and challeng'd Cupid at
    the flight, and my uncle's fool, reading the challenge,
    subscrib'd for Cupid and challeng'd him at the burbolt. I pray
    you, how many hath he kill'd and eaten in these wars? But how
    many hath he kill'd? For indeed I promised to eat all of his
    killing.
  Leon. Faith, niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much; but he'll
    be meet with you, I doubt it not.
  Mess. He hath done good service, lady, in these wars.
  Beat. You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it. He is a
    very valiant trencherman; he hath an excellent stomach.
  Mess. And a good soldier too, lady.
  Beat. And a good soldier to a lady; but what is he to a lord?
  Mess. A lord to a lord, a man to a man; stuff'd with all honourable
    virtues.
  Beat. It is so indeed. He is no less than a stuff'd man; but for
    the stuffing--well, we are all mortal.
  Leon. You must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is a kind of merry
    war betwixt Signior Benedick and her. They never meet but there's
    a skirmish of wit between them.
  Beat. Alas, he gets nothing by that! In our last conflict four of
    his five wits went halting off, and now is the whole man govern'd
    with one; so that if he have wit enough to keep himself warm, let
    him bear it for a difference between himself and his horse; for
    it is all the wealth that he hath left to be known a reasonable
    creature. Who is his companion now? He hath every month a new
    sworn brother.
  Mess. Is't possible?
  Beat. Very easily possible. He wears his faith but as the fashion
    of his hat; it ever changes with the next block.
  Mess. I see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books.
  Beat. No. An he were, I would burn my study. But I pray you, who is
    his companion? Is there no young squarer now that will make a
    voyage with him to the devil?
  Mess. He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio.
  Beat. O Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease! He is sooner
    caught than the pestilence, and the taker runs presently mad. God
    help the noble Claudio! If he have caught the Benedick, it will
    cost him a thousand pound ere 'a be cured.
  Mess. I will hold friends with you, lady.
  Beat. Do, good friend.
  Leon. You will never run mad, niece.
  Beat. No, not till a hot January.
  Mess. Don Pedro is approach'd.

  Enter Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, Balthasar, and John the Bastard.

  Pedro. Good Signior Leonato, are you come to meet your trouble? The
    fashion of the world is to avoid cost, and you encounter it.
  Leon. Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of your Grace;
    for trouble being gone, comfort should remain; but when you depart
    from me, sorrow abides and happiness takes his leave.
  Pedro. You embrace your charge too willingly. I think this is your
    daughter.
  Leon. Her mother hath many times told me so.
  Bene. Were you in doubt, sir, that you ask'd her?
  Leon. Signior Benedick, no; for then were you a child.
  Pedro. You have it full, Benedick. We may guess by this what you
    are, being a man. Truly the lady fathers herself. Be happy, lady;
    for you are like an honourable father.
  Bene. If Signior Leonato be her father, she would not have his head
    on her shoulders for all Messina, as like him as she is.
  Beat. I wonder that you will still be talking, Signior Benedick.
    Nobody marks you.
  Bene. What, my dear Lady Disdain! are you yet living?
  Beat. Is it possible Disdain should die while she hath such meet
    food to feed it as Signior Benedick? Courtesy itself must convert
    to disdain if you come in her presence.
  Bene. Then is courtesy a turncoat. But it is certain I am loved of
    all ladies, only you excepted; and I would I could find in my
    heart that I had not a hard heart, for truly I love none.
  Beat. A dear happiness to women! They would else have been troubled
    with a pernicious suitor. I thank God and my cold blood, I am of
    your humour for that. I had rather hear my dog bark at a crow
    than a man swear he loves me.
  Bene. God keep your ladyship still in that mind! So some gentleman
    or other shall scape a predestinate scratch'd face.
  Beat. Scratching could not make it worse an 'twere such a face as
    yours were.
  Bene. Well, you are a rare parrot-teacher.
  Beat. A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours.
  Bene. I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and so good a
    continuer. But keep your way, a God's name! I have done.
  Beat. You always end with a jade's trick. I know you of old.
  Pedro. That is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Claudio and Signior
    Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hath invited you all. I tell him
    we shall stay here at the least a month, and he heartly prays
    some occasion may detain us longer. I dare swear he is no
    hypocrite, but prays from his heart.
  Leon. If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn. [To Don
    John] Let me bid you welcome, my lord. Being reconciled to the
    Prince your brother, I owe you all duty.
  John. I thank you. I am not of many words, but I thank you.
  Leon. Please it your Grace lead on?
  Pedro. Your hand, Leonato. We will go together.
                            Exeunt. Manent Benedick and Claudio.
  Claud. Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato?
  Bene. I noted her not, but I look'd on her.
  Claud. Is she not a modest young lady?
  Bene. Do you question me, as an honest man should do, for my simple
    true judgment? or would you have me speak after my custom, as
    being a professed tyrant to their sex?
  Claud. No. I pray thee speak in sober judgment.
  Bene. Why, i' faith, methinks she's too low for a high praise,
    too brown for a fair praise, and too little for a great praise.
    Only this commendation I can afford her, that were she other
    than she is, she were unhandsome, and being no other but as she
    is, I do not like her.
  Claud. Thou thinkest I am in sport. I pray thee tell me truly how
    thou lik'st her.
  Bene. Would you buy her, that you enquire after her?
  Claud. Can the world buy such a jewel?
  Bene. Yea, and a case to put it into. But speak you this with a sad
    brow? or do you play the flouting Jack, to tell us Cupid is a
    good hare-finder and Vulcan a rare carpenter? Come, in what key
    shall a man take you to go in the song?
  Claud. In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I look'd on.
  Bene. I can see yet without spectacles, and I see no such matter.
    There's her cousin, an she were not possess'd with a fury,exceeds
    her as much in beauty as the first of May doth the last of
    December. But I hope you have no intent to turn husband, have
    you?
  Claud. I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the
    contrary, if Hero would be my wife.
  Bene. Is't come to this? In faith, hath not the world one man but
    he will wear his cap with suspicion? Shall I never see a
    bachelor of threescore again? Go to, i' faith! An thou wilt needs
    thrust thy neck into a yoke, wear the print of it and sigh away
    Sundays.

                       Enter Don Pedro.

    Look! Don Pedro is returned to seek you.
  Pedro. What secret hath held you here, that you followed not to
    Leonato's?
  Bene. I would your Grace would constrain me to tell.
  Pedro. I charge thee on thy allegiance.
  Bene. You hear, Count Claudio. I can be secret as a dumb man, I
    would have you think so; but, on my allegiance--mark you this-on
    my allegiance! he is in love. With who? Now that is your Grace's
    part. Mark how short his answer is: With Hero, Leonato's short
    daughter.
  Claud. If this were so, so were it utt'red.
  Bene. Like the old tale, my lord: 'It is not so, nor 'twas not so;
    but indeed, God forbid it should be so!'
  Claud. If my passion change not shortly, God forbid it should be
    otherwise.
  Pedro. Amen, if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy.
  Claud. You speak this to fetch me in, my lord.
  Pedro. By my troth, I speak my thought.
  Claud. And, in faith, my lord, I spoke mine.
  Bene. And, by my two faiths and troths, my lord, I spoke mine.
  Claud. That I love her, I feel.
  Pedro. That she is worthy, I know.
  Bene. That I neither feel how she should be loved, nor know how she
    should be worthy, is the opinion that fire cannot melt out of me.
    I will die in it at the stake.
  Pedro. Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite of
    beauty.
  Claud. And never could maintain his part but in the force of his
    will.
  Bene. That a woman conceived me, I thank her; that she brought me
    up, I likewise give her most humble thanks; but that I will have
    a rechate winded in my forehead, or hang my bugle in an invisible
    baldrick, all women shall pardon me. Because I will not do them
    the wrong to mistrust any, I will do myself the right to trust
    none; and the fine is (for the which I may go the finer), I will
    live a bachelor.
  Pedro. I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.
  Bene. With anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord; not with
    love. Prove that ever I lose more blood with love than I will get
    again with drinking, pick out mine eyes with a ballad-maker's pen
    and hang me up at the door of a brothel house for the sign of
    blind Cupid.
  Pedro. Well, if ever thou dost fall from this faith, thou wilt
    prove a notable argument.
  Bene. If I do, hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot at me; and
    he that hits me, let him be clapp'd on the shoulder and call'd
    Adam.
  Pedro. Well, as time shall try.
    'In time the savage bull doth bear the yoke.'
  Bene. The savage bull may; but if ever the sensible Benedick bear
    it, pluck off the bull's horns and set them in my forehead, and
    let me be vilely painted, and in such great letters as they write
    'Here is good horse to hire,' let them signify under my sign
    'Here you may see Benedick the married man.'
  Claud. If this should ever happen, thou wouldst be horn-mad.
  Pedro. Nay, if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in Venice, thou
    wilt quake for this shortly.
  Bene. I look for an earthquake too then.
  Pedro. Well, you will temporize with the hours. In the meantime,
    good Signior Benedick, repair to Leonato's, commend me to him and
    tell him I will not fail him at supper; for indeed he hath made
    great preparation.
  Bene. I have almost matter enough in me for such an embassage; and
    so I commit you--
  Claud. To the tuition of God. From my house--if I had it--
  Pedro. The sixth of July. Your loving friend, Benedick.
  Bene. Nay, mock not, mock not. The body of your discourse is
    sometime guarded with fragments, and the guards are but slightly
    basted on neither. Ere you flout old ends any further, examine
    your conscience. And so I leave you.                   Exit.
  Claud. My liege, your Highness now may do me good.
  Pedro. My love is thine to teach. Teach it but how,
    And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn
    Any hard lesson that may do thee good.
  Claud. Hath Leonato any son, my lord?
  Pedro. No child but Hero; she's his only heir.
    Dost thou affect her, Claudio?
  Claud.O my lord,
    When you went onward on this ended action,
    I look'd upon her with a soldier's eye,
    That lik'd, but had a rougher task in hand
    Than to drive liking to the name of love;
    But now I am return'd and that war-thoughts
    Have left their places vacant, in their rooms
    Come thronging soft and delicate desires,
    All prompting me how fair young Hero is,
    Saying I lik'd her ere I went to wars.
  Pedro. Thou wilt be like a lover presently
    And tire the hearer with a book of words.
    If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it,
    And I will break with her and with her father,
    And thou shalt have her. Wast not to this end
    That thou began'st to twist so fine a story?
  Claud. How sweetly you do minister to love,
    That know love's grief by his complexion!
    But lest my liking might too sudden seem,
    I would have salv'd it with a longer treatise.
  Pedro. What need the bridge much broader than the flood?
    The fairest grant is the necessity.
    Look, what will serve is fit. 'Tis once, thou lovest,
    And I will fit thee with the remedy.
    I know we shall have revelling to-night.
    I will assume thy part in some disguise
    And tell fair Hero I am Claudio,
    And in her bosom I'll unclasp my heart
    And take her hearing prisoner with the force
    And strong encounter of my amorous tale.
    Then after to her father will I break,
    And the conclusion is, she shall be thine.
    In practice let us put it presently.                 Exeunt.




Scene II.
A room in Leonato's house.

Enter [at one door] Leonato and [at another door, Antonio] an old man,
brother to Leonato.

  Leon. How now, brother? Where is my cousin your son? Hath he
    provided this music?
  Ant. He is very busy about it. But, brother, I can tell you strange
    news that you yet dreamt not of.
  Leon. Are they good?
  Ant. As the event stamps them; but they have a good cover, they
    show well outward. The Prince and Count Claudio, walking in a
    thick-pleached alley in mine orchard, were thus much overheard by
    a man of mine: the Prince discovered to Claudio that he loved my
    niece your daughter and meant to acknowledge it this night in a
    dance, and if he found her accordant, he meant to take the
    present time by the top and instantly break with you of it.
  Leon. Hath the fellow any wit that told you this?
  Ant. A good sharp fellow. I will send for him, and question him
    yourself.
  Leon. No, no. We will hold it as a dream till it appear itself; but
    I will acquaint my daughter withal, that she may be the better
    prepared for an answer, if peradventure this be true. Go you and
    tell her of it.                              [Exit Antonio.]

         [Enter Antonio's Son with a Musician, and others.]

    [To the Son] Cousin, you know what you have to do.
    --[To the Musician] O, I cry you mercy, friend. Go you with me,
    and I will use your skill.--Good cousin, have a care this busy
    time.                                                Exeunt.




Scene III.
Another room in Leonato's house.]

Enter Sir John the Bastard and Conrade, his companion.

  Con. What the goodyear, my lord! Why are you thus out of measure
    sad?
  John. There is no measure in the occasion that breeds; therefore
    the sadness is without limit.
  Con. You should hear reason.
  John. And when I have heard it, what blessings brings it?
  Con. If not a present remedy, at least a patient sufferance.
  John. I wonder that thou (being, as thou say'st thou art, born
    under Saturn) goest about to apply a moral medicine to a
    mortifying mischief. I cannot hide what I am: I must be sad when
    I have cause, and smile at no man's jests; eat when I have
    stomach, and wait for no man's leisure; sleep when I am drowsy,
    and tend on no man's business; laugh when I am merry, and claw no
    man in his humour.
  Con. Yea, but you must not make the full show of this till you may
    do it without controlment. You have of late stood out against
    your brother, and he hath ta'en you newly into his grace, where
    it is impossible you should take true root but by the fair
    weather that you make yourself. It is needful that you frame the
    season for your own harvest.
  John. I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in his grace,
    and it better fits my blood to be disdain'd of all than to
    fashion a carriage to rob love from any. In this, though I cannot
    be said to be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied but
    I am a plain-dealing villain. I am trusted with a muzzle and
    enfranchis'd with a clog; therefore I have decreed not to sing in
    my cage. If I had my mouth, I would bite; if I had my liberty, I
    would do my liking. In the meantime let me be that I am, and seek
    not to alter me.
  Con. Can you make no use of your discontent?
  John. I make all use of it, for I use it only.

                       Enter Borachio.

    Who comes here? What news, Borachio?
  Bora. I came yonder from a great supper. The Prince your brother is
    royally entertain'd by Leonato, and I can give you intelligence
    of an intended marriage.
  John. Will it serve for any model to build mischief on?
    What is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness?
  Bora. Marry, it is your brother's right hand.
  John. Who? the most exquisite Claudio?
  Bora. Even he.
  John. A proper squire! And who? and who? which way looks he?
  Bora. Marry, on Hero, the daughter and heir of Leonato.
  John. A very forward March-chick! How came you to this?
  Bora. Being entertain'd for a perfumer, as I was smoking a musty
    room, comes me the Prince and Claudio, hand in hand in sad
    conference. I whipt me behind the arras and there heard it agreed
    upon that the Prince should woo Hero for himself, and having
    obtain'd her, give her to Count Claudio.
  John. Come, come, let us thither. This may prove food to my
    displeasure. That young start-up hath all the glory of my
    overthrow. If I can cross him any way, I bless myself every way.
    You are both sure, and will assist me?
  Con. To the death, my lord.
  John. Let us to the great supper. Their cheer is the greater that
    I am subdued. Would the cook were o' my mind! Shall we go prove
    what's to be done?
  Bora. We'll wait upon your lordship.
                                                         Exeunt.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT II. Scene I.
A hall in Leonato's house.

Enter Leonato, [Antonio] his Brother, Hero his Daughter,
and Beatrice his Niece, and a Kinsman; [also Margaret and Ursula].

  Leon. Was not Count John here at supper?
  Ant. I saw him not.
  Beat. How tartly that gentleman looks! I never can see him but I am
    heart-burn'd an hour after.
  Hero. He is of a very melancholy disposition.
  Beat. He were an excellent man that were made just in the midway
    between him and Benedick. The one is too like an image and says
    nothing, and the other too like my lady's eldest son, evermore
    tattling.
  Leon. Then half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John's mouth,
    and half Count John's melancholy in Signior Benedick's face--
  Beat. With a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and money enough in
    his purse, such a man would win any woman in the world--if 'a
    could get her good will.
  Leon. By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a husband if
    thou be so shrewd of thy tongue.
  Ant. In faith, she's too curst.
  Beat. Too curst is more than curst. I shall lessen God's sending
    that way, for it is said, 'God sends a curst cow short horns,'
    but to a cow too curst he sends none.
  Leon. So, by being too curst, God will send you no horns.
  Beat. Just, if he send me no husband; for the which blessing I am
    at him upon my knees every morning and evening. Lord, I could not
    endure a husband with a beard on his face. I had rather lie in
    the woollen!
  Leon. You may light on a husband that hath no beard.
  Beat. What should I do with him? dress him in my apparel and make
    him my waiting gentlewoman? He that hath a beard is more than a
    youth, and he that hath no beard is less than a man; and he that
    is more than a youth is not for me; and he that is less than a
    man, I am not for him. Therefore I will even take sixpence in
    earnest of the berrord and lead his apes into hell.
  Leon. Well then, go you into hell?
  Beat. No; but to the gate, and there will the devil meet me like an
    old cuckold with horns on his head, and say 'Get you to heaven,
    Beatrice, get you to heaven. Here's no place for you maids.' So
    deliver I up my apes, and away to Saint Peter--for the heavens.
    He shows me where the bachelors sit, and there live we as merry
    as the day is long.
  Ant. [to Hero] Well, niece, I trust you will be rul'd by your
    father.
  Beat. Yes faith. It is my cousin's duty to make cursy and say,
    'Father, as it please you.' But yet for all that, cousin, let him
    be a handsome fellow, or else make another cursy, and say,
    'Father, as it please me.'
  Leon. Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband.
  Beat. Not till God make men of some other metal than earth. Would
    it not grieve a woman to be overmaster'd with a piece of valiant
    dust? to make an account of her life to a clod of wayward marl?
    No, uncle, I'll none. Adam's sons are my brethren, and truly I
    hold it a sin to match in my kinred.
  Leon. Daughter, remember what I told you. If the Prince do solicit
    you in that kind, you know your answer.
  Beat. The fault will be in the music, cousin, if you be not wooed
    in good time. If the Prince be too important, tell him there is
    measure in everything, and so dance out the answer. For, hear me,
    Hero: wooing, wedding, and repenting is as a Scotch jig, a
    measure, and a cinque-pace: the first suit is hot and hasty like
    a Scotch jig--and full as fantastical; the wedding, mannerly
    modest, as a measure, full of state and ancientry; and then comes
    Repentance and with his bad legs falls into the cinque-pace
    faster and faster, till he sink into his grave.
  Leon. Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly.
  Beat. I have a good eye, uncle; I can see a church by daylight.
  Leon. The revellers are ent'ring, brother. Make good room.
                                                 [Exit Antonio.]

    Enter, [masked,] Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, and Balthasar.
       [With them enter Antonio, also masked. After them enter]
       Don John [and Borachio (without masks), who stand aside
                 and look on during the dance].

  Pedro. Lady, will you walk a bout with your friend?
  Hero. So you walk softly and look sweetly and say nothing,
    I am yours for the walk; and especially when I walk away.
  Pedro. With me in your company?
  Hero. I may say so when I please.
  Pedro. And when please you to say so?
  Hero. When I like your favour, for God defend the lute should be
    like the case!
  Pedro. My visor is Philemon's roof; within the house is Jove.
  Hero. Why then, your visor should be thatch'd.
  Pedro. Speak low if you speak love.         [Takes her aside.]
  Balth. Well, I would you did like me.
  Marg. So would not I for your own sake, for I have many ill
    qualities.
  Balth. Which is one?
  Marg. I say my prayers aloud.
  Balth. I love you the better. The hearers may cry Amen.
  Marg. God match me with a good dancer!
  Balth. Amen.
  Marg. And God keep him out of my sight when the dance is done!
    Answer, clerk.
  Balth. No more words. The clerk is answered.
                                              [Takes her aside.]
  Urs. I know you well enough. You are Signior Antonio.
  Ant. At a word, I am not.
  Urs. I know you by the waggling of your head.
  Ant. To tell you true, I counterfeit him.
  Urs. You could never do him so ill-well unless you were the very
    man. Here's his dry hand up and down. You are he, you are he!
  Ant. At a word, I am not.
  Urs. Come, come, do you think I do not know you by your excellent
    wit? Can virtue hide itself? Go to, mum you are he. Graces will
    appear, and there's an end.              [ They step aside.]
  Beat. Will you not tell me who told you so?
  Bene. No, you shall pardon me.
  Beat. Nor will you not tell me who you are?
  Bene. Not now.
  Beat. That I was disdainful, and that I had my good wit out of the
    'Hundred Merry Tales.' Well, this was Signior Benedick that said
    so.
  Bene. What's he?
  Beat. I am sure you know him well enough.
  Bene. Not I, believe me.
  Beat. Did he never make you laugh?
  Bene. I pray you, what is he?
  Beat. Why, he is the Prince's jester, a very dull fool. Only his
    gift is in devising impossible slanders. None but libertines
    delight in him; and the commendation is not in his wit, but in
    his villany; for he both pleases men and angers them, and then
    they laugh at him and beat him. I am sure he is in the fleet.
    I would he had boarded me.
  Bene. When I know the gentleman, I'll tell him what you say.
  Beat. Do, do. He'll but break a comparison or two on me; which
    peradventure, not marked or not laugh'd at, strikes him into
    melancholy; and then there's a partridge wing saved, for the fool
    will eat no supper that night.
                                                        [Music.]
    We must follow the leaders.
  Bene. In every good thing.
  Beat. Nay, if they lead to any ill, I will leave them at the next
    turning.
        Dance. Exeunt (all but Don John, Borachio, and Claudio].
  John. Sure my brother is amorous on Hero and hath withdrawn her
    father to break with him about it. The ladies follow her and but
    one visor remains.
  Bora. And that is Claudio. I know him by his bearing.
  John. Are you not Signior Benedick?
  Claud. You know me well. I am he.
  John. Signior, you are very near my brother in his love. He is
    enamour'd on Hero. I pray you dissuade him from her; she is no
    equal for his birth. You may do the part of an honest man in it.
  Claud. How know you he loves her?
  John. I heard him swear his affection.
  Bora. So did I too, and he swore he would marry her tonight.
  John. Come, let us to the banquet.
                                          Exeunt. Manet Claudio.
  Claud. Thus answer I in name of Benedick
    But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio.
                                                      [Unmasks.]
    'Tis certain so. The Prince wooes for himself.
    Friendship is constant in all other things
    Save in the office and affairs of love.
    Therefore all hearts in love use their own tongues;
    Let every eye negotiate for itself
    And trust no agent; for beauty is a witch
    Against whose charms faith melteth into blood.
    This is an accident of hourly proof,
    Which I mistrusted not. Farewell therefore Hero!

                  Enter Benedick [unmasked].

  Bene. Count Claudio?
  Claud. Yea, the same.
  Bene. Come, will you go with me?
  Claud. Whither?
  Bene. Even to the next willow, about your own business, County. What
    fashion will you wear the garland of? about your neck, like an
    usurer's chain? or under your arm, like a lieutenant's scarf? You
    must wear it one way, for the Prince hath got your Hero.
  Claud. I wish him joy of her.
  Bene. Why, that's spoken like an honest drovier. So they sell
    bullocks. But did you think the Prince would have served you
    thus?
  Claud. I pray you leave me.
  Bene. Ho! now you strike like the blind man! 'Twas the boy that
    stole your meat, and you'll beat the post.
  Claud. If it will not be, I'll leave you.                Exit.
  Bene. Alas, poor hurt fowl! now will he creep into sedges. But,
    that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and not know me! The
    Prince's fool! Ha! it may be I go under that title because I am
    merry. Yea, but so I am apt to do myself wrong. I am not so
    reputed. It is the base (though bitter) disposition of Beatrice
    that puts the world into her person and so gives me out. Well,
    I'll be revenged as I may.

                         Enter Don Pedro.

  Pedro. Now, signior, where's the Count? Did you see him?
  Bene. Troth, my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame, I found
    him here as melancholy as a lodge in a warren. I told him, and I
    think I told him true, that your Grace had got the good will of
    this young lady, and I off'red him my company to a willow tree,
    either to make him a garland, as being forsaken, or to bind him
    up a rod, as being worthy to be whipt.
  Pedro. To be whipt? What's his fault?
  Bene. The flat transgression of a schoolboy who, being overjoyed
    with finding a bird's nest, shows it his companion, and he steals
    it.
  Pedro. Wilt thou make a trust a transgression? The transgression is
    in the stealer.
  Bene. Yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made, and the
    garland too; for the garland he might have worn himself, and the
    rod he might have bestowed on you, who, as I take it, have stol'n
    his bird's nest.
  Pedro. I will but teach them to sing and restore them to the owner.
  Bene. If their singing answer your saying, by my faith you say
    honestly.
  Pedro. The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you. The gentleman that
    danc'd with her told her she is much wrong'd by you.
  Bene. O, she misus'd me past the endurance of a block! An oak but
    with one green leaf on it would have answered her; my very visor
    began to assume life and scold with her. She told me, not
    thinking I had been myself, that I was the Prince's jester, that
    I was duller than a great thaw; huddling jest upon jest with such
    impossible conveyance upon me that I stood like a man at a mark,
    with a whole army shooting at me. She speaks poniards, and every
    word stabs. If her breath were as terrible as her terminations,
    there were no living near her; she would infect to the North
    Star. I would not marry her though she were endowed with all that
    Adam had left him before he transgress'd. She would have made
    Hercules have turn'd spit, yea, and have cleft his club to make
    the fire too. Come, talk not of her. You shall find her the
    infernal Ate in good apparel. I would to God some scholar would
    conjure her, for certainly, while she is here, a man may live as
    quiet in hell as in a sanctuary; and people sin upon purpose,
    because they would go thither; so indeed all disquiet, horror,
    and perturbation follows her.

           Enter Claudio and Beatrice, Leonato, Hero.

  Pedro. Look, here she comes.
  Bene. Will your Grace command me any service to the world's end? I
    will go on the slightest errand now to the Antipodes that you can
    devise to send me on; I will fetch you a toothpicker now from the
    furthest inch of Asia; bring you the length of Prester John's
    foot; fetch you a hair off the great Cham's beard; do you any
    embassage to the Pygmies--rather than hold three words'
    conference with this harpy. You have no employment for me?
  Pedro. None, but to desire your good company.
  Bene. O God, sir, here's a dish I love not! I cannot endure my Lady
    Tongue.                                              [Exit.]
  Pedro. Come, lady, come; you have lost the heart of Signior
    Benedick.
  Beat. Indeed, my lord, he lent it me awhile, and I gave him use for
    it--a double heart for his single one. Marry, once before he won
    it of me with false dice; therefore your Grace may well say I
    have lost it.
  Pedro. You have put him down, lady; you have put him down.
  Beat. So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I should prove
    the mother of fools. I have brought Count Claudio, whom you sent
    me to seek.
  Pedro. Why, how now, Count? Wherefore are you sad?
  Claud. Not sad, my lord.
  Pedro. How then? sick?
  Claud. Neither, my lord.
  Beat. The Count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor well; but
    civil count--civil as an orange, and something of that jealous
    complexion.
  Pedro. I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true; though I'll
    be sworn, if he be so, his conceit is false. Here, Claudio, I
    have wooed in thy name, and fair Hero is won. I have broke with
    her father, and his good will obtained. Name the day of marriage,
    and God give thee joy!
  Leon. Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my fortunes. His
    Grace hath made the match, and all grace say Amen to it!
  Beat. Speak, Count, 'tis your cue.
  Claud. Silence is the perfectest herald of joy. I were but little
    happy if I could say how much. Lady, as you are mine, I am yours.
    I give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange.
  Beat. Speak, cousin; or, if you cannot, stop his mouth with a kiss
    and let not him speak neither.
  Pedro. In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.
  Beat. Yea, my lord; I thank it, poor fool, it keeps on the windy
    side of care. My cousin tells him in his ear that he is in her
    heart.
  Claud. And so she doth, cousin.
  Beat. Good Lord, for alliance! Thus goes every one to the world but
    I, and I am sunburnt. I may sit in a corner and cry 'Heigh-ho for
    a husband!'
  Pedro. Lady Beatrice, I will get you one.
  Beat. I would rather have one of your father's getting. Hath your
    Grace ne'er a brother like you? Your father got excellent
    husbands, if a maid could come by them.
  Pedro. Will you have me, lady?
  Beat. No, my lord, unless I might have another for working days:
    your Grace is too costly to wear every day. But I beseech your
    Grace pardon me. I was born to speak all mirth and no matter.
  Pedro. Your silence most offends me, and to be merry best becomes
    you, for out o' question you were born in a merry hour.
  Beat. No, sure, my lord, my mother cried; but then there was a star
    danc'd, and under that was I born. Cousins, God give you joy!
  Leon. Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?
  Beat. I cry you mercy, uncle, By your Grace's pardon.    Exit.
  Pedro. By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.
  Leon. There's little of the melancholy element in her, my lord. She
    is never sad but when she sleeps, and not ever sad then; for I
    have heard my daughter say she hath often dreamt of unhappiness
    and wak'd herself with laughing.
  Pedro. She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.
  Leon. O, by no means! She mocks all her wooers out of suit.
  Pedro. She were an excellent wife for Benedick.
  Leon. O Lord, my lord! if they were but a week married, they would
    talk themselves mad.
  Pedro. County Claudio, when mean you to go to church?
  Claud. To-morrow, my lord. Time goes on crutches till love have all
    his rites.
  Leon. Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just
    sevennight; and a time too brief too, to have all things answer
    my mind.
  Pedro. Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing;
    but I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go dully by us.
    I will in the interim undertake one of Hercules' labours, which
    is, to bring Signior Benedick and the Lady Beatrice into a
    mountain of affection th' one with th' other. I would fain have
    it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it if you three will
    but minister such assistance as I shall give you direction.
  Leon. My lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten nights'
    watchings.
  Claud. And I, my lord.
  Pedro. And you too, gentle Hero?
  Hero. I will do any modest office, my lord, to help my cousin to a
    good husband.
  Pedro. And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that I know.
    Thus far can I praise him: he is of a noble strain, of approved
    valour, and confirm'd honesty. I will teach you how to humour
    your cousin, that she shall fall in love with Benedick; and I,
    [to Leonato and Claudio] with your two helps, will so practise on
    Benedick that, in despite of his quick wit and his queasy
    stomach, he shall fall in love with Beatrice. If we can do this,
    Cupid is no longer an archer; his glory shall be ours, for we are
    the only love-gods. Go in with me, and I will tell you my drift.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene II.
A hall in Leonato's house.

Enter [Don] John and Borachio.

  John. It is so. The Count Claudio shall marry the daughter of
    Leonato.
  Bora. Yea, my lord; but I can cross it.
  John. Any bar, any cross, any impediment will be med'cinable to me.
    I am sick in displeasure to him, and whatsoever comes athwart his
    affection ranges evenly with mine. How canst thou cross this
    marriage?
  Bora. Not honestly, my lord, but so covertly that no dishonesty
    shall appear in me.
  John. Show me briefly how.
  Bora. I think I told your lordship, a year since, how much I am in
    the favour of Margaret, the waiting gentlewoman to Hero.
  John. I remember.
  Bora. I can, at any unseasonable instant of the night, appoint her
    to look out at her lady's chamber window.
  John. What life is in that to be the death of this marriage?
  Bora. The poison of that lies in you to temper. Go you to the
    Prince your brother; spare not to tell him that he hath wronged
    his honour in marrying the renowned Claudio (whose estimation do
    you mightily hold up) to a contaminated stale, such a one as
    Hero.
  John. What proof shall I make of that?
  Bora. Proof enough to misuse the Prince, to vex Claudio, to undo
    Hero, and kill Leonato. Look you for any other issue?
  John. Only to despite them I will endeavour anything.
  Bora. Go then; find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and the Count
    Claudio alone; tell them that you know that Hero loves me; intend
    a kind of zeal both to the Prince and Claudio, as--in love of
    your brother's honour, who hath made this match, and his friend's
    reputation, who is thus like to be cozen'd with the semblance of
    a maid--that you have discover'd thus. They will scarcely believe
    this without trial. Offer them instances; which shall bear no
    less likelihood than to see me at her chamber window, hear me
    call Margaret Hero, hear Margaret term me Claudio; and bring them
    to see this the very night before the intended wedding (for in
    the meantime I will so fashion the matter that Hero shall be
    absent) and there shall appear such seeming truth of Hero's
    disloyalty that jealousy shall be call'd assurance and all the
    preparation overthrown.
  John. Grow this to what adverse issue it can, I will put it in
    practice. Be cunning in the working this, and thy fee is a
    thousand ducats.
  Bora. Be you constant in the accusation, and my cunning shall not
    shame me.
  John. I will presently go learn their day of marriage.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene III.
Leonato's orchard.

Enter Benedick alone.

  Bene. Boy!

                    [Enter Boy.]

  Boy. Signior?
  Bene. In my chamber window lies a book. Bring it hither to me in
    the orchard.
  Boy. I am here already, sir.
  Bene. I know that, but I would have thee hence and here again.
    (Exit Boy.) I do much wonder that one man, seeing how much
    another man is a fool when he dedicates his behaviours to love,
    will, after he hath laugh'd at such shallow follies in others,
    become the argument of his own scorn by falling in love; and such
    a man is Claudio. I have known when there was no music with him
    but the drum and the fife; and now had he rather hear the tabor
    and the pipe. I have known when he would have walk'd ten mile
    afoot to see a good armour; and now will he lie ten nights awake
    carving the fashion of a new doublet. He was wont to speak plain
    and to the purpose, like an honest man and a soldier; and now is
    he turn'd orthography; his words are a very fantastical banquet--
    just so many strange dishes. May I be so converted and see with
    these eyes? I cannot tell; I think not. I will not be sworn but
    love may transform me to an oyster; but I'll take my oath on it,
    till he have made an oyster of me he shall never make me such a
    fool. One woman is fair, yet I am well; another is wise, yet I am
    well; another virtuous, yet I am well; but till all graces be in
    one woman, one woman shall not come in my grace. Rich she shall
    be, that's certain; wise, or I'll none; virtuous, or I'll never
    cheapen her; fair, or I'll never look on her; mild, or come not
    near me; noble, or not I for an angel; of good discourse, an
    excellent musician, and her hair shall be of what colour it
    please God. Ha, the Prince and Monsieur Love! I will hide me in
    the arbour.                                         [Hides.]

              Enter Don Pedro, Leonato, Claudio.
                      Music [within].

  Pedro. Come, shall we hear this music?
  Claud. Yea, my good lord. How still the evening is,
    As hush'd on purpose to grace harmony!
  Pedro. See you where Benedick hath hid himself?
  Claud. O, very well, my lord. The music ended,
    We'll fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth.

                   Enter Balthasar with Music.

  Pedro. Come, Balthasar, we'll hear that song again.
  Balth. O, good my lord, tax not so bad a voice
    To slander music any more than once.
  Pedro. It is the witness still of excellency
    To put a strange face on his own perfection.
    I pray thee sing, and let me woo no more.
  Balth. Because you talk of wooing, I will sing,
    Since many a wooer doth commence his suit
    To her he thinks not worthy, yet he wooes,
    Yet will he swear he loves.
  Pedro. Nay, pray thee come;
    Or if thou wilt hold longer argument,
    Do it in notes.
  Balth. Note this before my notes:
    There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting.
  Pedro. Why, these are very crotchets that he speaks!
    Note notes, forsooth, and nothing!                  [Music.]
  Bene. [aside] Now divine air! Now is his soul ravish'd! Is it not
    strange that sheep's guts should hale souls out of men's bodies?
    Well, a horn for my money, when all's done.
                                              [Balthasar sings.]
                      The Song.

        Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more!
          Men were deceivers ever,
        One foot in sea, and one on shore;
          To one thing constant never.
            Then sigh not so,
            But let them go,
          And be you blithe and bonny,
        Converting all your sounds of woe
          Into Hey nonny, nonny.

        Sing no more ditties, sing no moe,
          Of dumps so dull and heavy!
        The fraud of men was ever so,
          Since summer first was leavy.
            Then sigh not so, &c.

  Pedro. By my troth, a good song.
  Balth. And an ill singer, my lord.
  Pedro. Ha, no, no, faith! Thou sing'st well enough for a shift.
  Bene. [aside] An he had been a dog that should have howl'd thus,
    they would have hang'd him; and I pray God his bad voice bode no
    mischief. I had as live have heard the night raven, come what
    plague could have come after it.
  Pedro. Yea, marry. Dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee get us
    some excellent music; for to-morrow night we would have it at the
    Lady Hero's chamber window.
  Balth. The best I can, my lord.
  Pedro. Do so. Farewell.
                                Exit Balthasar [with Musicians].
    Come hither, Leonato. What was it you told me of to-day? that
    your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick?
  Claud. O, ay!-[Aside to Pedro] Stalk on, stalk on; the fowl sits.
    --I did never think that lady would have loved any man.
  Leon. No, nor I neither; but most wonderful that she should so dote
    on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in all outward behaviours
    seem'd ever to abhor.
  Bene. [aside] Is't possible? Sits the wind in that corner?
  Leon. By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think of it, but
    that she loves him with an enraged affection. It is past the
    infinite of thought.
  Pedro. May be she doth but counterfeit.
  Claud. Faith, like enough.
  Leon. O God, counterfeit? There was never counterfeit of passion
    came so near the life of passion as she discovers it.
  Pedro. Why, what effects of passion shows she?
  Claud. [aside] Bait the hook well! This fish will bite.
  Leon. What effects, my lord? She will sit you--you heard my
    daughter tell you how.
  Claud. She did indeed.
  Pedro. How, how, I pray you? You amaze me. I would have thought her
    spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection.
  Leon. I would have sworn it had, my lord--especially against
    Benedick.
  Bene. [aside] I should think this a gull but that the white-bearded
    fellow speaks it. Knavery cannot, sure, hide himself in such
    reverence.
  Claud. [aside] He hath ta'en th' infection. Hold it up.
  Pedro. Hath she made her affection known to Benedick?
  Leon. No, and swears she never will. That's her torment.
  Claud. 'Tis true indeed. So your daughter says. 'Shall I,' says
    she, 'that have so oft encount'red him with scorn, write to him
    that I love him?'"
  Leon. This says she now when she is beginning to write to him; for
    she'll be up twenty times a night, and there will she sit in her
    smock till she have writ a sheet of paper. My daughter tells us
    all.
  Claud. Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a pretty jest
    your daughter told us of.
  Leon. O, when she had writ it, and was reading it over, she found
    'Benedick' and 'Beatrice' between the sheet?
  Claud. That.
  Leon. O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence, rail'd at
    herself that she should be so immodest to write to one that she
    knew would flout her. 'I measure him,' says she, 'by my own
    spirit; for I should flout him if he writ to me. Yea, though I
    love him, I should.'
  Claud. Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs, beats her
    heart, tears her hair, prays, curses--'O sweet Benedick! God give
    me patience!'
  Leon. She doth indeed; my daughter says so. And the ecstasy hath so
    much overborne her that my daughter is sometime afeard she will
    do a desperate outrage to herself. It is very true.
  Pedro. It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other, if she
    will not discover it.
  Claud. To what end? He would make but a sport of it and torment the
    poor lady worse.
  Pedro. An he should, it were an alms to hang him! She's an
    excellent sweet lady, and (out of all suspicion) she is virtuous.
  Claud. And she is exceeding wise.
  Pedro. In everything but in loving Benedick.
  Leon. O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body,
    we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory. I am sorry
    for her, as I have just cause, being her uncle and her guardian.
  Pedro. I would she had bestowed this dotage on me. I would have
    daff'd all other respects and made her half myself. I pray you
    tell Benedick of it and hear what 'a will say.
  Leon. Were it good, think you?
  Claud. Hero thinks surely she will die; for she says she will die
    if he love her not, and she will die ere she make her love known,
    and she will die, if he woo her, rather than she will bate one
    breath of her accustomed crossness.
  Pedro. She doth well. If she should make tender of her love, 'tis
    very possible he'll scorn it; for the man (as you know all) hath
    a contemptible spirit.
  Claud. He is a very proper man.
  Pedro. He hath indeed a good outward happiness.
  Claud. Before God! and in my mind, very wise.
  Pedro. He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit.
  Claud. And I take him to be valiant.
  Pedro. As Hector, I assure you; and in the managing of quarrels you
    may say he is wise, for either he avoids them with great
    discretion, or undertakes them with a most Christianlike fear.
  Leon. If he do fear God, 'a must necessarily keep peace. If he
    break the peace, he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and
    trembling.
  Pedro. And so will he do; for the man doth fear God, howsoever it
    seems not in him by some large jests he will make. Well, I am
    sorry for your niece. Shall we go seek Benedick and tell him of
    her love?
  Claud. Never tell him, my lord. Let her wear it out with good
    counsel.
  Leon. Nay, that's impossible; she may wear her heart out first.
  Pedro. Well, we will hear further of it by your daughter. Let it
    cool the while. I love Benedick well, and I could wish he would
    modestly examine himself to see how much he is unworthy so good a
    lady.
  Leon. My lord, will you .walk? Dinner is ready.
                                               [They walk away.]
  Claud. If he dote on her upon this, I will never trust my
    expectation.
  Pedro. Let there be the same net spread for her, and that must your
    daughter and her gentlewomen carry. The sport will be, when they
    hold one an opinion of another's dotage, and no such matter.
    That's the scene that I would see, which will be merely a dumb
    show. Let us send her to call him in to dinner.
                       Exeunt [Don Pedro, Claudio, and Leonato].

                [Benedick advances from the arbour.]

  Bene. This can be no trick. The conference was sadly borne; they
    have the truth of this from Hero; they seem to pity the lady.
    It seems her affections have their full bent. Love me? Why, it
    must be requited. I hear how I am censur'd. They say I will bear
    myself proudly if I perceive the love come from her. They say too
    that she will rather die than give any sign of affection. I did
    never think to marry. I must not seem proud. Happy are they that
    hear their detractions and can put them to mending. They say the
    lady is fair--'tis a truth, I can bear them witness; and virtuous
    --'tis so, I cannot reprove it; and wise, but for loving me--by
    my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor no great argument of
    her folly, for I will be horribly in love with her. I may chance
    have some odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me because I
    have railed so long against marriage. But doth not the appetite
    alters? A man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure
    in his age. Shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of
    the brain awe a man from the career of his humour? No, the world
    must be peopled. When I said I would die a bachelor, I did not
    think I should live till I were married.

                 Enter Beatrice.

    Here comes Beatrice. By this day, she's a fair lady! I do spy
    some marks of love in her.
  Beat. Against my will I am sent to bid You come in to dinner.
  Bene. Fair Beatrice, I thank you for your pains.
  Beat. I took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to
    thank me. If it had been painful, I would not have come.
  Bene. You take pleasure then in the message?
  Beat. Yea, just so much as you may take upon a knives point, and
    choke a daw withal. You have no stomach, signior. Fare you well.
Exit.
  Bene. Ha! 'Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner.'
    There's a double meaning in that. 'I took no more pains for those
    thanks than you took pains to thank me.' That's as much as to
    say, 'Any pains that I take for you is as easy as thanks.' If I
    do not take pity of her, I am a villain; if I do not love her, I
    am a Jew. I will go get her picture.                   Exit.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT III. Scene I.
Leonato's orchard.

Enter Hero and two Gentlewomen, Margaret and Ursula.

  Hero. Good Margaret, run thee to the parlour.
    There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice
    Proposing with the Prince and Claudio.
    Whisper her ear and tell her, I and Ursley
    Walk in the orchard, and our whole discourse
    Is all of her. Say that thou overheard'st us;
    And bid her steal into the pleached bower,
    Where honeysuckles, ripened by the sun,
    Forbid the sun to enter--like favourites,
    Made proud by princes, that advance their pride
    Against that power that bred it. There will she hide her
    To listen our propose. This is thy office.
    Bear thee well in it and leave us alone.
  Marg. I'll make her come, I warrant you, presently.    [Exit.]
  Hero. Now, Ursula, when Beatrice doth come,
    As we do trace this alley up and down,
    Our talk must only be of Benedick.
    When I do name him, let it be thy part
    To praise him more than ever man did merit.
    My talk to thee must be how Benedick
    Is sick in love with Beatrice. Of this matter
    Is little Cupid's crafty arrow made,
    That only wounds by hearsay.

                   [Enter Beatrice.]

    Now begin;
    For look where Beatrice like a lapwing runs
    Close by the ground, to hear our conference.

               [Beatrice hides in the arbour].

  Urs. The pleasant'st angling is to see the fish
    Cut with her golden oars the silver stream
    And greedily devour the treacherous bait.
    So angle we for Beatrice, who even now
    Is couched in the woodbine coverture.
    Fear you not my part of the dialogue.
  Hero. Then go we near her, that her ear lose nothing
    Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it.
                                     [They approach the arbour.]
    No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful.
    I know her spirits are as coy and wild
    As haggards of the rock.
  Urs. But are you sure
    That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely?
  Hero. So says the Prince, and my new-trothed lord.
  Urs. And did they bid you tell her of it, madam?
  Hero. They did entreat me to acquaint her of it;
    But I persuaded them, if they lov'd Benedick,
    To wish him wrestle with affection
    And never to let Beatrice know of it.
  Urs. Why did you so? Doth not the gentleman
    Deserve as full, as fortunate a bed
    As ever Beatrice shall couch upon?
  Hero. O god of love! I know he doth deserve
    As much as may be yielded to a man:
    But Nature never fram'd a woman's heart
    Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice.
    Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes,
    Misprizing what they look on; and her wit
    Values itself so highly that to her
    All matter else seems weak. She cannot love,
    Nor take no shape nor project of affection,
    She is so self-endeared.
  Urs. Sure I think so;
    And therefore certainly it were not good
    She knew his love, lest she'll make sport at it.
  Hero. Why, you speak truth. I never yet saw man,
    How wise, how noble, young, how rarely featur'd,
    But she would spell him backward. If fair-fac'd,
    She would swear the gentleman should be her sister;
    If black, why, Nature, drawing of an antic,
    Made a foul blot; if tall, a lance ill-headed;
    If low, an agate very vilely cut;
    If speaking, why, a vane blown with all winds;
    If silent, why, a block moved with none.
    So turns she every man the wrong side out
    And never gives to truth and virtue that
    Which simpleness and merit purchaseth.
  Urs. Sure, sure, such carping is not commendable.
  Hero. No, not to be so odd, and from all fashions,
    As Beatrice is, cannot be commendable.
    But who dare tell her so? If I should speak,
    She would mock me into air; O, she would laugh me
    Out of myself, press me to death with wit!
    Therefore let Benedick, like cover'd fire,
    Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly.
    It were a better death than die with mocks,
    Which is as bad as die with tickling.
  Urs. Yet tell her of it. Hear what she will say.
  Hero. No; rather I will go to Benedick
    And counsel him to fight against his passion.
    And truly, I'll devise some honest slanders
    To stain my cousin with. One doth not know
    How much an ill word may empoison liking.
  Urs. O, do not do your cousin such a wrong!
    She cannot be so much without true judgment
    (Having so swift and excellent a wit
    As she is priz'd to have) as to refuse
    So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick.
  Hero. He is the only man of Italy,
    Always excepted my dear Claudio.
  Urs. I pray you be not angry with me, madam,
    Speaking my fancy: Signior Benedick,
    For shape, for bearing, argument, and valour,
    Goes foremost in report through Italy.
  Hero. Indeed he hath an excellent good name.
  Urs. His excellence did earn it ere he had it.
    When are you married, madam?
  Hero. Why, every day to-morrow! Come, go in.
    I'll show thee some attires, and have thy counsel
    Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow.
                                               [They walk away.]
  Urs. She's lim'd, I warrant you! We have caught her, madam.
  Hero. If it prove so, then loving goes by haps;
    Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.
                                       Exeunt [Hero and Ursula].

    [Beatrice advances from the arbour.]

  Beat. What fire is in mine ears? Can this be true?
    Stand I condemn'd for pride and scorn so much?
    Contempt, farewell! and maiden pride, adieu!
    No glory lives behind the back of such.
    And, Benedick, love on; I will requite thee,
    Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand.
    If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee
    To bind our loves up in a holy band;
    For others say thou dost deserve, and I
    Believe it better than reportingly.                    Exit.




Scene II.
A room in Leonato's house.

Enter Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, and Leonato.

  Pedro. I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and then go
    I toward Arragon.
  Claud. I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you'll vouchsafe me.
  Pedro. Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your
    marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear
    it. I will only be bold with Benedick for his company; for, from
    the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all mirth.
    He hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's bowstring, and the little
    hangman dare not shoot at him. He hath a heart as sound as a
    bell; and his tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks,
    his tongue speaks.
  Bene. Gallants, I am not as I have been.
  Leon. So say I. Methinks you are sadder.
  Claud. I hope he be in love.
  Pedro. Hang him, truant! There's no true drop of blood in him to be
    truly touch'd with love. If he be sad, he wants money.
  Bene. I have the toothache.
  Pedro. Draw it.
  Bene. Hang it!
  Claud. You must hang it first and draw it afterwards.
  Pedro. What? sigh for the toothache?
  Leon. Where is but a humour or a worm.
  Bene. Well, every one can master a grief but he that has it.
  Claud. Yet say I he is in love.
  Pedro. There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be a fancy
    that he hath to strange disguises; as to be a Dutchman to-day, a
    Frenchman to-morrow; or in the shape of two countries at once, as
    a German from the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from
    the hip upward, no doublet. Unless he have a fancy to this
    foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no fool for fancy, as you
    would have it appear he is.
  Claud. If he be not in love with some woman, there is no believing
    old signs. 'A brushes his hat o' mornings. What should that bode?
  Pedro. Hath any man seen him at the barber's?
  Claud. No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him, and the
     old ornament of his cheek hath already stuff'd tennis balls.
  Leon. Indeed he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard.
  Pedro. Nay, 'a rubs himself with civet. Can you smell him out by
    that?
  Claud. That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.
  Pedro. The greatest note of it is his melancholy.
  Claud. And when was he wont to wash his face?
  Pedro. Yea, or to paint himself? for the which I hear what they say
    of him.
  Claud. Nay, but his jesting spirit, which is new-crept into a
    lutestring, and now govern'd by stops.
  Pedro. Indeed that tells a heavy tale for him. Conclude, conclude,
    he is in love.
  Claud. Nay, but I know who loves him.
  Pedro. That would I know too. I warrant, one that knows him not.
  Claud. Yes, and his ill conditions; and in despite of all, dies for
    him.
  Pedro. She shall be buried with her face upwards.
  Bene. Yet is this no charm for the toothache. Old signior, walk
    aside with me. I have studied eight or nine wise words to speak
    to you, which these hobby-horses must not hear.
                                  [Exeunt Benedick and Leonato.]
  Pedro. For my life, to break with him about Beatrice!
  Claud. 'Tis even so. Hero and Margaret have by this played their
    parts with Beatrice, and then the two bears will not bite one
    another when they meet.

                 Enter John the Bastard.

  John. My lord and brother, God save you.
  Pedro. Good den, brother.
  John. If your leisure serv'd, I would speak with you.
  Pedro. In private?
  John. If it please you. Yet Count Claudio may hear, for what I
    would speak of concerns him.
  Pedro. What's the matter?
  John. [to Claudio] Means your lordship to be married tomorrow?
  Pedro. You know he does.
  John. I know not that, when he knows what I know.
  Claud. If there be any impediment, I pray you discover it.
  John. You may think I love you not. Let that appear hereafter, and
    aim better at me by that I now will manifest. For my brother, I
    think he holds you well and in dearness of heart hath holp to
    effect your ensuing marriage--surely suit ill spent and labour
    ill bestowed!
  Pedro. Why, what's the matter?
  John. I came hither to tell you, and, circumstances short'ned (for
    she has been too long a-talking of), the lady is disloyal.
  Claud. Who? Hero?
  John. Even she--Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero.
  Claud. Disloyal?
  John. The word is too good to paint out her wickedness. I could say
    she were worse; think you of a worse title, and I will fit her to
    it. Wonder not till further warrant. Go but with me to-night, you
    shall see her chamber window ent'red, even the night before her
    wedding day. If you love her then, to-morrow wed her. But it
    would better fit your honour to change your mind.
  Claud. May this be so?
  Pedro. I will not think it.
  John. If you dare not trust that you see, confess not that you
    know. If you will follow me, I will show you enough; and when you
    have seen more and heard more, proceed accordingly.
  Claud. If I see anything to-night why I should not marry her
    to-morrow, in the congregation where I should wed, there will I
    shame her.
  Pedro. And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join with
    thee to disgrace her.
  John. I will disparage her no farther till you are my witnesses.
    Bear it coldly but till midnight, and let the issue show itself.
  Pedro. O day untowardly turned!
  Claud. O mischief strangely thwarting!
  John. O plague right well prevented!
    So will you say when you have seen the Sequel.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene III.
A street.

Enter Dogberry and his compartner [Verges], with the Watch.

  Dog. Are you good men and true?
  Verg. Yea, or else it were pity but they should suffer salvation,
    body and soul.
  Dog. Nay, that were a punishment too good for them if they should
    have any allegiance in them, being chosen for the Prince's watch.
  Verg. Well, give them their charge, neighbour Dogberry.
  Dog. First, who think you the most desartless man to be constable?
  1. Watch. Hugh Oatcake, sir, or George Seacoal; for they can write
    and read.
  Dog. Come hither, neighbour Seacoal. God hath bless'd you with a
    good name. To be a well-favoured man is the gift of fortune, but
    to write and read comes by nature.
  2. Watch. Both which, Master Constable--
  Dog. You have. I knew it would be your answer. Well, for your
    favour, sir, why, give God thanks and make no boast of it; and
    for your writing and reading, let that appear when there is no
    need of such vanity. You are thought here to be the most
    senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch. Therefore
    bear you the lanthorn. This is your charge: you shall comprehend
    all vagrom men; you are to bid any man stand, in the Prince's
    name.
  2. Watch. How if 'a will not stand?
  Dog. Why then, take no note of him, but let him go, and presently
    call the rest of the watch together and thank God you are rid of
    a knave.
  Verg. If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none of the
    Prince's subjects.
  Dog. True, and they are to meddle with none but the Prince's
    subjects. You shall also make no noise in the streets; for for
    the watch to babble and to talk is most tolerable, and not to be
    endured.
  2. Watch. We will rather sleep than talk. We know what belongs to
    a watch.
  Dog. Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet watchman, for I
    cannot see how sleeping should offend. Only have a care that your
    bills be not stol'n. Well, you are to call at all the alehouses
    and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.
  2. Watch. How if they will not?
  Dog. Why then, let them alone till they are sober. If they make you
    not then the better answer, You may say they are not the men you
    took them for.
  2. Watch. Well, sir.
  Dog. If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue of your
    office, to be no true man; and for such kind of men, the less you
    meddle or make with them, why, the more your honesty.
  2. Watch. If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay hands on
    him?
  Dog. Truly, by your office you may; but I think they that touch
    pitch will be defil'd. The most peaceable way for you, if you do
    take a thief, is to let him show himself what he is, and steal
    out of your company.
  Verg. You have been always called a merciful man, partner.
  Dog. Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more a man who
    hath any honesty in him.
  Verg. If you hear a child cry in the night, you must call to the
    nurse and bid her still it.
  2. Watch. How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us?
  Dog. Why then, depart in peace and let the child wake her with
    crying; for the ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baes will
    never answer a calf when he bleats.
  Verg. 'Tis very true.
  Dog. This is the end of the charge: you, constable, are to present
    the Prince's own person. If you meet the Prince in the night,
    you may stay him.
  Verg. Nay, by'r lady, that I think 'a cannot.
  Dog. Five shillings to one on't with any man that knows the
    statutes, he may stay him! Marry, not without the Prince be
    willing; for indeed the watch ought to offend no man, and it is
    an offence to stay a man against his will.
  Verg. By'r lady, I think it be so.
  Dog. Ha, ah, ha! Well, masters, good night. An there be any matter
    of weight chances, call up me. Keep your fellows' counsels and
    your own, and good night. Come, neighbour.
  2. Watch. Well, masters, we hear our charge. Let us go sit here
    upon the church bench till two, and then all to bed.
  Dog. One word more, honest neighbours. I pray you watch about
    Signior Leonato's door; for the wedding being there tomorrow,
    there is a great coil to-night. Adieu. Be vigitant, I beseech
    you.                           Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges].

                     Enter Borachio and Conrade.

  Bora. What, Conrade!
  2. Watch. [aside] Peace! stir not!
  Bora. Conrade, I say!
  Con. Here, man. I am at thy elbow.
  Bora. Mass, and my elbow itch'd! I thought there would a scab
    follow.
  Con. I will owe thee an answer for that; and now forward with thy
    tale.
  Bora. Stand thee close then under this penthouse, for it drizzles
    rain, and I will, like a true drunkard, utter all to thee.
  2. Watch. [aside] Some treason, masters. Yet stand close.
  Bora. Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats.
  Con. Is it possible that any villany should be so dear?
  Bora. Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villany
    should be so rich; for when rich villains have need of poor ones,
    poor ones may make what price they will.
  Con. I wonder at it.
  Bora. That shows thou art unconfirm'd. Thou knowest that the
    fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is nothing to a man.
  Con. Yes, it is apparel.
  Bora. I mean the fashion.
  Con. Yes, the fashion is the fashion.
  Bora. Tush! I may as well say the fool's the fool. But seest thou
    not what a deformed thief this fashion is?
  2. Watch. [aside] I know that Deformed. 'A bas been a vile thief
    this seven year; 'a goes up and down like a gentleman. I remember
    his name.
  Bora. Didst thou not hear somebody?
  Con. No; 'twas the vane on the house.
  Bora. Seest thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this fashion is?
    how giddily 'a turns about all the hot-bloods between fourteen
    and five-and-thirty? sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's
    soldiers in the reechy painting, sometime like god Bel's priests
    in the old church window, sometime like the shaven Hercules in
    the smirch'd worm-eaten tapestry, where his codpiece seems as
    massy as his club?
  Con. All this I see; and I see that the fashion wears out more
    apparel than the man. But art not thou thyself giddy with the
    fashion too, that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling
    me of the fashion?
  Bora. Not so neither. But know that I have to-night wooed Margaret,
    the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the name of Hero. She leans me
    out at her mistress' chamber window, bids me a thousand times
    good night--I tell this tale vilely; I should first tell thee how
    the Prince, Claudio and my master, planted and placed and
    possessed by my master Don John, saw afar off in the orchard this
    amiable encounter.
  Con. And thought they Margaret was Hero?
  Bora. Two of them did, the Prince and Claudio; but the devil my
    master knew she was Margaret; and partly by his oaths, which
    first possess'd them, partly by the dark night, which did deceive
    them, but chiefly by my villany, which did confirm any slander
    that Don John had made, away went Claudio enrag'd; swore he would
    meet her, as he was appointed, next morning at the temple, and
    there, before the whole congregation, shame her with what he saw
    o'ernight and send her home again without a husband.
  2. Watch. We charge you in the Prince's name stand!
  1. Watch. Call up the right Master Constable. We have here
    recover'd the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known
    in the commonwealth.
  2. Watch. And one Deformed is one of them. I know him; 'a wears a
    lock.
  Con. Masters, masters--
  1. Watch. You'll be made bring Deformed forth, I warrant you.
  Con. Masters--
  2. Watch. Never speak, we charge you. Let us obey you to go with
    us.
  Bora. We are like to prove a goodly commodity, being taken up of
    these men's bills.
  Con. A commodity in question, I warrant you. Come, we'll obey you.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene IV.
A Room in Leonato's house.

Enter Hero, and Margaret and Ursula.

  Hero. Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice and desire her to rise.
  Urs. I will, lady.
  Hero. And bid her come hither.
  Urs. Well.                                             [Exit.]
  Marg. Troth, I think your other rebato were better.
  Hero. No, pray thee, good Meg, I'll wear this.
  Marg. By my troth, 's not so good, and I warrant your cousin will
    say so.
  Hero. My cousin's a fool, and thou art another. I'll wear none but
    this.
  Marg. I like the new tire within excellently, if the hair were a
    thought browner; and your gown's a most rare fashion, i' faith.
    I saw the Duchess of Milan's gown that they praise so.
  Hero. O, that exceeds, they say.
  Marg. By my troth, 's but a nightgown in respect of yours--
    cloth-o'-gold and cuts, and lac'd with silver, set with pearls
    down sleeves, side-sleeves, and skirts, round underborne with
    a blush tinsel. But for a fine, quaint, graceful, and excellent
    fashion, yours is worth ten on't.
  Hero. God give me joy to wear it! for my heart is exceeding heavy.
  Marg. 'Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.
  Hero. Fie upon thee! art not ashamed?
  Marg. Of what, lady? of speaking honourably? Is not marriage
    honourable in a beggar? Is not your lord honourable without
    marriage? I think you would have me say, 'saving your reverence,
    a husband.' An bad thinking do not wrest true speaking, I'll
    offend nobody. Is there any harm in 'the heavier for a husband'?
    None, I think, an it be the right husband and the right wife.
    Otherwise 'tis light, and not heavy. Ask my Lady Beatrice else.
    Here she comes.

                               Enter Beatrice.

  Hero. Good morrow, coz.
  Beat. Good morrow, sweet Hero.
  Hero. Why, how now? Do you speak in the sick tune?
  Beat. I am out of all other tune, methinks.
  Marg. Clap's into 'Light o' love.' That goes without a burden. Do
    you sing it, and I'll dance it.
  Beat. Yea, 'Light o' love' with your heels! then, if your husband
    have stables enough, you'll see he shall lack no barnes.
  Marg. O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels.
  Beat. 'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin; 'tis time you were ready.
    By my troth, I am exceeding ill. Hey-ho!
  Marg. For a hawk, a horse, or a husband?
  Beat. For the letter that begins them all, H.
  Marg. Well, an you be not turn'd Turk, there's no more sailing by
    the star.
  Beat. What means the fool, trow?
  Marg. Nothing I; but God send every one their heart's desire!
  Hero. These gloves the Count sent me, they are an excellent
    perfume.
  Beat. I am stuff'd, cousin; I cannot smell.
  Marg. A maid, and stuff'd! There's goodly catching of cold.
  Beat. O, God help me! God help me! How long have you profess'd
    apprehension?
  Marg. Ever since you left it. Doth not my wit become me rarely?
  Beat. It is not seen enough. You should wear it in your cap. By my
    troth, I am sick.
  Marg. Get you some of this distill'd carduus benedictus and lay it
    to your heart. It is the only thing for a qualm.
  Hero. There thou prick'st her with a thistle.
  Beat. Benedictus? why benedictus? You have some moral in this
    'benedictus.'
  Marg. Moral? No, by my troth, I have no moral meaning; I meant
    plain holy thistle. You may think perchance that I think you are
    in love. Nay, by'r lady, I am not such a fool to think what I
    list; nor I list not to think what I can; nor indeed I cannot
    think, if I would think my heart out of thinking, that you are in
    love, or that you will be in love, or that you can be in love.
    Yet Benedick was such another, and now is he become a man. He
    swore he would never marry; and yet now in despite of his heart
    he eats his meat without grudging; and how you may be converted I
    know not, but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do.
  Beat. What pace is this that thy tongue keeps?
  Marg. Not a false gallop.

                         Enter Ursula.

  Urs. Madam, withdraw. The Prince, the Count, Signior Benedick, Don
    John, and all the gallants of the town are come to fetch you to
    church.
  Hero. Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.
                                                       [Exeunt.]




Scene V.
The hall in Leonato's house.

Enter Leonato and the Constable [Dogberry] and the Headborough [verges].

  Leon. What would you with me, honest neighbour?
  Dog. Marry, sir, I would have some confidence with you that decerns
    you nearly.
  Leon. Brief, I pray you; for you see it is a busy time with me.
  Dog. Marry, this it is, sir.
  Verg. Yes, in truth it is, sir.
  Leon. What is it, my good friends?
  Dog. Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the matter--an old
    man, sir, and his wits are not so blunt as, God help, I would
    desire they were; but, in faith, honest as the skin between his
    brows.
  Verg. Yes, I thank God I am as honest as any man living that is an
    old man and no honester than I.
  Dog. Comparisons are odorous. Palabras, neighbour Verges.
  Leon. Neighbours, you are tedious.
  Dog. It pleases your worship to say so, but we are the poor Duke's
    officers; but truly, for mine own part, if I were as tedious as a
    king, I could find in my heart to bestow it all of your worship.
  Leon. All thy tediousness on me, ah?
  Dog. Yea, in 'twere a thousand pound more than 'tis; for I hear as
    good exclamation on your worship as of any man in the city; and
    though I be but a poor man, I am glad to hear it.
  Verg. And so am I.
  Leon. I would fain know what you have to say.
  Verg. Marry, sir, our watch to-night, excepting your worship's
    presence, ha' ta'en a couple of as arrant knaves as any in
    Messina.
  Dog. A good old man, sir; he will be talking. As they say, 'When
    the age is in, the wit is out.' God help us! it is a world to
    see! Well said, i' faith, neighbour Verges. Well, God's a good
    man. An two men ride of a horse, one must ride behind. An honest
    soul, i' faith, sir, by my troth he is, as ever broke bread; but
    God is to be worshipp'd; all men are not alike, alas, good
    neighbour!
  Leon. Indeed, neighbour, he comes too short of you.
  Dog. Gifts that God gives.
  Leon. I must leave you.
  Dog. One word, sir. Our watch, sir, have indeed comprehended two
    aspicious persons, and we would have them this morning examined
    before your worship.
  Leon. Take their examination yourself and bring it me. I am now in
    great haste, as it may appear unto you.
  Dog. It shall be suffigance.
  Leon. Drink some wine ere you go. Fare you well.

                       [Enter a Messenger.]

  Mess. My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to her
    husband.
  Leon. I'll wait upon them. I am ready.
                                 [Exeunt Leonato and Messenger.]
  Dog. Go, good partner, go get you to Francis Seacoal; bid him bring
    his pen and inkhorn to the jail. We are now to examination these
    men.
  Verg. And we must do it wisely.
  Dog. We will spare for no wit, I warrant you. Here's that shall
    drive some of them to a non-come. Only get the learned writer to
    set down our excommunication, and meet me at the jail.
                                                       [Exeunt.]




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT IV. Scene I.
A church.

Enter Don Pedro, [John the] Bastard, Leonato, Friar [Francis], Claudio,
Benedick, Hero, Beatrice, [and Attendants].

  Leon. Come, Friar Francis, be brief. Only to the plain form of
    marriage, and you shall recount their particular duties
    afterwards.
  Friar. You come hither, my lord, to marry this lady?
  Claud. No.
  Leon. To be married to her. Friar, you come to marry her.
  Friar. Lady, you come hither to be married to this count?
  Hero. I do.
  Friar. If either of you know any inward impediment why you should
    not be conjoined, I charge you on your souls to utter it.
  Claud. Know you any, Hero?
  Hero. None, my lord.
  Friar. Know you any, Count?
  Leon. I dare make his answer--none.
  Claud. O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily do, not
    knowing what they do!
  Bene. How now? interjections? Why then, some be of laughing, as,
    ah, ha, he!
  Claud. Stand thee by, friar. Father, by your leave:
    Will you with free and unconstrained soul
    Give me this maid your daughter?
  Leon. As freely, son, as God did give her me.
  Claud. And what have I to give you back whose worth
    May counterpoise this rich and precious gift?
  Pedro. Nothing, unless you render her again.
  Claud. Sweet Prince, you learn me noble thankfulness.
    There, Leonato, take her back again.
    Give not this rotten orange to your friend.
    She's but the sign and semblance of her honour.
    Behold how like a maid she blushes here!
    O, what authority and show of truth
    Can cunning sin cover itself withal!
    Comes not that blood as modest evidence
    To witness simple virtue, Would you not swear,
    All you that see her, that she were a maid
    By these exterior shows? But she is none:
    She knows the heat of a luxurious bed;
    Her blush is guiltiness, not modesty.
  Leon. What do you mean, my lord?
  Claud. Not to be married,
    Not to knit my soul to an approved wanton.
  Leon. Dear my lord, if you, in your own proof,
    Have vanquish'd the resistance of her youth
    And made defeat of her virginity--
  Claud. I know what you would say. If I have known her,
    You will say she did embrace me as a husband,
    And so extenuate the forehand sin.
    No, Leonato,
    I never tempted her with word too large,
    But, as a brother to his sister, show'd
    Bashful sincerity and comely love.
  Hero. And seem'd I ever otherwise to you?
  Claud. Out on the seeming! I will write against it.
    You seem to me as Dian in her orb,
    As chaste as is the bud ere it be blown;
    But you are more intemperate in your blood
    Than Venus, or those pamp'red animals
    That rage in savage sensuality.
  Hero. Is my lord well that he doth speak so wide?
  Leon. Sweet Prince, why speak not you?
  Pedro. What should I speak?
    I stand dishonour'd that have gone about
    To link my dear friend to a common stale.
  Leon. Are these things spoken, or do I but dream?
  John. Sir, they are spoken, and these things are true.
  Bene. This looks not like a nuptial.
  Hero. 'True!' O God!
  Claud. Leonato, stand I here?
    Is this the Prince, Is this the Prince's brother?
    Is this face Hero's? Are our eyes our own?
  Leon. All this is so; but what of this, my lord?
  Claud. Let me but move one question to your daughter,
    And by that fatherly and kindly power
    That you have in her, bid her answer truly.
  Leon. I charge thee do so, as thou art my child.
  Hero. O, God defend me! How am I beset!
    What kind of catechising call you this?
  Claud. To make you answer truly to your name.
  Hero. Is it not Hero? Who can blot that name
    With any just reproach?
  Claud. Marry, that can Hero!
    Hero itself can blot out Hero's virtue.
    What man was he talk'd with you yesternight,
    Out at your window betwixt twelve and one?
    Now, if you are a maid, answer to this.
  Hero. I talk'd with no man at that hour, my lord.
  Pedro. Why, then are you no maiden. Leonato,
    I am sorry you must hear. Upon my honour,
    Myself, my brother, and this grieved Count
    Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night
    Talk with a ruffian at her chamber window,
    Who hath indeed, most like a liberal villain,
    Confess'd the vile encounters they have had
    A thousand times in secret.
  John. Fie, fie! they are not to be nam'd, my lord--
    Not to be spoke of;
    There is not chastity, enough in language
    Without offence to utter them. Thus, pretty lady,
    I am sorry for thy much misgovernment.
  Claud. O Hero! what a Hero hadst thou been
    If half thy outward graces had been plac'd
    About thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart!
    But fare thee well, most foul, most fair! Farewell,
    Thou pure impiety and impious purity!
    For thee I'll lock up all the gates of love,
    And on my eyelids shall conjecture hang,
    To turn all beauty into thoughts of harm,
    And never shall it more be gracious.
  Leon. Hath no man's dagger here a point for me?
                                                  [Hero swoons.]
  Beat. Why, how now, cousin? Wherefore sink you down?
  John. Come let us go. These things, come thus to light,
    Smother her spirits up.
                      [Exeunt Don Pedro, Don Juan, and Claudio.]
  Bene. How doth the lady?
  Beat. Dead, I think. Help, uncle!
    Hero! why, Hero! Uncle! Signior Benedick! Friar!
  Leon. O Fate, take not away thy heavy hand!
    Death is the fairest cover for her shame
    That may be wish'd for.
  Beat. How now, cousin Hero?
  Friar. Have comfort, lady.
  Leon. Dost thou look up?
  Friar. Yea, wherefore should she not?
  Leon. Wherefore? Why, doth not every earthly thing
    Cry shame upon her? Could she here deny
    The story that is printed in her blood?
    Do not live, Hero; do not ope thine eyes;
    For, did I think thou wouldst not quickly die,
    Thought I thy spirits were stronger than thy shames,
    Myself would on the rearward of reproaches
    Strike at thy life. Griev'd I, I had but one?
    Child I for that at frugal nature's frame?
    O, one too much by thee! Why had I one?
    Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes?
    Why had I not with charitable hand
    Took up a beggar's issue at my gates,
    Who smirched thus and mir'd with infamy,
    I might have said, 'No part of it is mine;
    This shame derives itself from unknown loins'?
    But mine, and mine I lov'd, and mine I prais'd,
    And mine that I was proud on--mine so much
    That I myself was to myself not mine,
    Valuing of her--why, she, O, she is fall'n
    Into a pit of ink, that the wide sea
    Hath drops too few to wash her clean again,
    And salt too little which may season give
    To her foul tainted flesh!
  Bene. Sir, sir, be patient.
    For my part, I am so attir'd in wonder,
    I know not what to say.
  Beat. O, on my soul, my cousin is belied!
  Bene. Lady, were you her bedfellow last night?
  Beat. No, truly, not; although, until last night,
    I have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow
  Leon. Confirm'd, confirm'd! O, that is stronger made
    Which was before barr'd up with ribs of iron!
    Would the two princes lie? and Claudio lie,
    Who lov'd her so that, speaking of her foulness,
    Wash'd it with tears? Hence from her! let her die.
  Friar. Hear me a little;
    For I have only been silent so long,
    And given way unto this course of fortune,
    By noting of the lady. I have mark'd
    A thousand blushing apparitions
    To start into her face, a thousand innocent shames
    In angel whiteness beat away those blushes,
    And in her eye there hath appear'd a fire
    To burn the errors that these princes hold
    Against her maiden truth. Call me a fool;
    Trust not my reading nor my observation,
    Which with experimental seal doth warrant
    The tenure of my book; trust not my age,
    My reverence, calling, nor divinity,
    If this sweet lady lie not guiltless here
    Under some biting error.
  Leon. Friar, it cannot be.
    Thou seest that all the grace that she hath left
    Is that she will not add to her damnation
    A sin of perjury: she not denies it.
    Why seek'st thou then to cover with excuse
    That which appears in proper nakedness?
  Friar. Lady, what man is he you are accus'd of?
  Hero. They know that do accuse me; I know none.
    If I know more of any man alive
    Than that which maiden modesty doth warrant,
    Let all my sins lack mercy! O my father,
    Prove you that any man with me convers'd
    At hours unmeet, or that I yesternight
    Maintain'd the change of words with any creature,
    Refuse me, hate me, torture me to death!
  Friar. There is some strange misprision in the princes.
  Bene. Two of them have the very bent of honour;
    And if their wisdoms be misled in this,
    The practice of it lives in John the bastard,
    Whose spirits toil in frame of villanies.
  Leon. I know not. If they speak but truth of her,
    These hands shall tear her. If they wrong her honour,
    The proudest of them shall well hear of it.
    Time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine,
    Nor age so eat up my invention,
    Nor fortune made such havoc of my means,
    Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends,
    But they shall find awak'd in such a kind
    Both strength of limb and policy of mind,
    Ability in means, and choice of friends,
    To quit me of them throughly.
  Friar. Pause awhile
    And let my counsel sway you in this case.
    Your daughter here the princes left for dead,
    Let her awhile be secretly kept in,
    And publish it that she is dead indeed;
    Maintain a mourning ostentation,
    And on your family's old monument
    Hang mournful epitaphs, and do all rites
    That appertain unto a burial.
  Leon. What shall become of this? What will this do?
  Friar. Marry, this well carried shall on her behalf
    Change slander to remorse. That is some good.
    But not for that dream I on this strange course,
    But on this travail look for greater birth.
    She dying, as it must be so maintain'd,
    Upon the instant that she was accus'd,
    Shall be lamented, pitied, and excus'd
    Of every hearer; for it so falls out
    That what we have we prize not to the worth
    Whiles we enjoy it, but being lack'd and lost,
    Why, then we rack the value, then we find
    The virtue that possession would not show us
    Whiles it was ours. So will it fare with Claudio.
    When he shall hear she died upon his words,
    Th' idea of her life shall sweetly creep
    Into his study of imagination,
    And every lovely organ of her life
    Shall come apparell'd in more precious habit,
    More moving, delicate, and full of life,
    Into the eye and prospect of his soul
    Than when she liv'd indeed. Then shall he mourn
    (If ever love had interest in his liver)
    And wish he had not so accused her--
    No, though be thought his accusation true.
    Let this be so, and doubt not but success
    Will fashion the event in better shape
    Than I can lay it down in likelihood.
    But if all aim but this be levell'd false,
    The supposition of the lady's death
    Will quench the wonder of her infamy.
    And if it sort not well, you may conceal her,
    As best befits her wounded reputation,
    In some reclusive and religious life,
    Out of all eyes, tongues, minds, and injuries.
  Bene. Signior Leonato, let the friar advise you;
    And though you know my inwardness and love
    Is very much unto the Prince and Claudio,
    Yet, by mine honour, I will deal in this
    As secretly and justly as your soul
    Should with your body.
  Leon. Being that I flow in grief,
    The smallest twine may lead me.
  Friar. 'Tis well consented. Presently away;
    For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure.
    Come, lady, die to live. This wedding day
    Perhaps is but prolong'd. Have patience and endure.
                         Exeunt [all but Benedick and Beatrice].
  Bene. Lady Beatrice, have you wept all this while?
  Beat. Yea, and I will weep a while longer.
  Bene. I will not desire that.
  Beat. You have no reason. I do it freely.
  Bene. Surely I do believe your fair cousin is wronged.
  Beat. Ah, how much might the man deserve of me that would right
     her!
  Bene. Is there any way to show such friendship?
  Beat. A very even way, but no such friend.
  Bene. May a man do it?
  Beat. It is a man's office, but not yours.
  Bene. I do love nothing in the world so well as you. Is not that
    strange?
  Beat. As strange as the thing I know not. It were as possible for
    me to say I loved nothing so well as you. But believe me not; and
    yet I lie not. I confess nothing, nor I deny nothing. I am sorry
    for my cousin.
  Bene. By my sword, Beatrice, thou lovest me.
  Beat. Do not swear, and eat it.
  Bene. I will swear by it that you love me, and I will make him eat
    it that says I love not you.
  Beat. Will you not eat your word?
  Bene. With no sauce that can be devised to it. I protest I love
    thee.
  Beat. Why then, God forgive me!
  Bene. What offence, sweet Beatrice?
  Beat. You have stayed me in a happy hour. I was about to protest I
    loved you.
  Bene. And do it with all thy heart.
  Beat. I love you with so much of my heart that none is left to
    protest.
  Bene. Come, bid me do anything for thee.
  Beat. Kill Claudio.
  Bene. Ha! not for the wide world!
  Beat. You kill me to deny it. Farewell.
  Bene. Tarry, sweet Beatrice.
  Beat. I am gone, though I am here. There is no love in you. Nay, I
    pray you let me go.
  Bene. Beatrice--
  Beat. In faith, I will go.
  Bene. We'll be friends first.
  Beat. You dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine
    enemy.
  Bene. Is Claudio thine enemy?
  Beat. Is 'a not approved in the height a villain, that hath
    slandered, scorned, dishonoured my kinswoman? O that I were a
    man! What? bear her in hand until they come to take hands, and
    then with public accusation, uncover'd slander, unmitigated
    rancour--O God, that I were a man! I would eat his heart in the
    market place.
  Bene. Hear me, Beatrice!
  Beat. Talk with a man out at a window!-a proper saying!
  Bene. Nay but Beatrice--
  Beat. Sweet Hero! she is wrong'd, she is sland'red, she is undone.
  Bene. Beat--
  Beat. Princes and Counties! Surely a princely testimony, a goodly
    count, Count Comfect, a sweet gallant surely! O that I were a man
    for his sake! or that I had any friend would be a man for my
    sake! But manhood is melted into cursies, valour into compliment,
    and men are only turn'd into tongue, and trim ones too. He is now
    as valiant as Hercules that only tells a lie,and swears it. I
    cannot be a man with wishing; therefore I will die a woman with
    grieving.
  Bene. Tarry, good Beatrice. By this hand, I love thee.
  Beat. Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it.
  Bene. Think you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wrong'd Hero?
  Beat. Yea, as sure is I have a thought or a soul.
  Bene. Enough, I am engag'd, I will challenge him. I will kiss your
    hand, and so I leave you. By this hand, Claudio shall render me a
    dear account. As you hear of me, so think of me. Go comfort your
    cousin. I must say she is dead-and so farewell.
                                                       [Exeunt.]




Scene II.
A prison.

Enter the Constables [Dogberry and Verges] and the Sexton, in gowns,
[and the Watch, with Conrade and] Borachio.

  Dog. Is our whole dissembly appear'd?
  Verg. O, a stool and a cushion for the sexton.
  Sex. Which be the malefactors?
  Dog. Marry, that am I and my partner.
  Verg. Nay, that's certain. We have the exhibition to examine.
  Sex. But which are the offenders that are to be examined? let them
    come before Master Constable.
  Dog. Yea, marry, let them come before me. What is your name,
    friend?
  Bor. Borachio.
  Dog. Pray write down Borachio. Yours, sirrah?
  Con. I am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.
  Dog. Write down Master Gentleman Conrade. Masters, do you serve
    God?
  Both. Yea, sir, we hope.
  Dog. Write down that they hope they serve God; and write God first,
    for God defend but God should go before such villains! Masters,
    it is proved already that you are little better than false
    knaves, and it will go near to be thought so shortly. How answer
    you for yourselves?
  Con. Marry, sir, we say we are none.
  Dog. A marvellous witty fellow, I assure you; but I will go about
    with him. Come you hither, sirrah. A word in your ear. Sir, I say
    to you, it is thought you are false knaves.
  Bora. Sir, I say to you we are none.
  Dog. Well, stand aside. Fore God, they are both in a tale.
    Have you writ down that they are none?
  Sex. Master Constable, you go not the way to examine. You must call
    forth the watch that are their accusers.
  Dog. Yea, marry, that's the eftest way. Let the watch come forth.
    Masters, I charge you in the Prince's name accuse these men.
  1. Watch. This man said, sir, that Don John the Prince's brother
    was a villain.
  Dog. Write down Prince John a villain. Why, this is flat perjury,
    to call a prince's brother villain.
  Bora. Master Constable--
  Dog. Pray thee, fellow, peace. I do not like thy look, I promise
    thee.
  Sex. What heard you him say else?
  2. Watch. Marry, that he had received a thousand ducats of Don John
    for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully.
  Dog. Flat burglary as ever was committed.
  Verg. Yea, by th' mass, that it is.
  Sex. What else, fellow?
  1. Watch. And that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, to
    disgrace Hero before the whole assembly, and not marry her.
  Dog. O villain! thou wilt be condemn'd into everlasting redemption
    for this.
  Sex. What else?
  Watchmen. This is all.
  Sex. And this is more, masters, than you can deny. Prince John is
    this morning secretly stol'n away. Hero was in this manner
    accus'd, in this manner refus'd, and upon the grief of this
    suddenly died. Master Constable, let these men be bound and
    brought to Leonato's. I will go before and show him their
    examination.                                         [Exit.]
  Dog. Come, let them be opinion'd.
  Verg. Let them be in the hands--
  Con. Off, coxcomb!
  Dog. God's my life, where's the sexton? Let him write down the
    Prince's officer coxcomb. Come, bind them.--Thou naughty varlet!
  Con. Away! you are an ass, you are an ass.
  Dog. Dost thou not suspect my place? Dost thou not suspect my
    years? O that he were here to write me down an ass! But, masters,
    remember that I am an ass. Though it be not written down, yet
    forget not that I am an ass. No, thou villain, thou art full of
    piety, as shall be prov'd upon thee by good witness. I am a wise
    fellow; and which is more, an officer; and which is more, a
    householder; and which is more, as pretty a piece of flesh as any
    is in Messina, and one that knows the law, go to! and a rich
    fellow enough, go to! and a fellow that hath had losses; and one
    that hath two gowns and everything handsome about him. Bring him
    away. O that I had been writ down an ass!
                                                         Exeunt.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT V. Scene I.
The street, near Leonato's house.

Enter Leonato and his brother [ Antonio].

  Ant. If you go on thus, you will kill yourself,
    And 'tis not wisdom thus to second grief
    Against yourself.
  Leon. I pray thee cease thy counsel,
    Which falls into mine ears as profitless
    As water in a sieve. Give not me counsel,
    Nor let no comforter delight mine ear
    But such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine.
    Bring me a father that so lov'd his child,
    Whose joy of her is overwhelm'd like mine,
    And bid him speak to me of patience.
    Measure his woe the length and breadth of mine,
    And let it answer every strain for strain,
    As thus for thus, and such a grief for such,
    In every lineament, branch, shape, and form.
    If such a one will smile and stroke his beard,
    Bid sorrow wag, cry 'hem' when he should groan,
    Patch grief with proverbs, make misfortune drunk
    With candle-wasters--bring him yet to me,
    And I of him will gather patience.
    But there is no such man; for, brother, men
    Can counsel and speak comfort to that grief
    Which they themselves not feel; but, tasting it,
    Their counsel turns to passion, which before
    Would give preceptial medicine to rage,
    Fetter strong madness in a silken thread,
    Charm ache with air and agony with words.
    No, no! 'Tis all men's office to speak patience
    To those that wring under the load of sorrow,
    But no man's virtue nor sufficiency
    To be so moral when he shall endure
    The like himself. Therefore give me no counsel.
    My griefs cry louder than advertisement.
  Ant. Therein do men from children nothing differ.
  Leon. I pray thee peace. I will be flesh and blood;
    For there was never yet philosopher
    That could endure the toothache patiently,
    However they have writ the style of gods
    And made a push at chance and sufferance.
  Ant. Yet bend not all the harm upon yourself.
    Make those that do offend you suffer too.
  Leon. There thou speak'st reason. Nay, I will do so.
    My soul doth tell me Hero is belied;
    And that shall Claudio know; so shall the Prince,
    And all of them that thus dishonour her.

              Enter Don Pedro and Claudio.

  Ant. Here comes the Prince and Claudio hastily.
  Pedro. Good den, Good den.
  Claud. Good day to both of you.
  Leon. Hear you, my lords!
  Pedro. We have some haste, Leonato.
  Leon. Some haste, my lord! well, fare you well, my lord.
    Are you so hasty now? Well, all is one.
  Pedro. Nay, do not quarrel with us, good old man.
  Ant. If he could right himself with quarrelling,
    Some of us would lie low.
  Claud. Who wrongs him?
  Leon. Marry, thou dost wrong me, thou dissembler, thou!
    Nay, never lay thy hand upon thy sword;
    I fear thee not.
  Claud. Mary, beshrew my hand
    If it should give your age such cause of fear.
    In faith, my hand meant nothing to my sword.
  Leon. Tush, tush, man! never fleer and jest at me
    I speak not like a dotard nor a fool,
    As under privilege of age to brag
    What I have done being young, or what would do,
    Were I not old. Know, Claudio, to thy head,
    Thou hast so wrong'd mine innocent child and me
    That I am forc'd to lay my reverence by
    And, with grey hairs and bruise of many days,
    Do challenge thee to trial of a man.
    I say thou hast belied mine innocent child;
    Thy slander hath gone through and through her heart,
    And she lied buried with her ancestors-
    O, in a tomb where never scandal slept,
    Save this of hers, fram'd by thy villany!
  Claud. My villany?
  Leon. Thine, Claudio; thine I say.
  Pedro. You say not right, old man
  Leon. My lord, my lord,
    I'll prove it on his body if he dare,
    Despite his nice fence and his active practice,
    His May of youth and bloom of lustihood.
  Claud. Away! I will not have to do with you.
  Leon. Canst thou so daff me? Thou hast kill'd my child.
    If thou kill'st me, boy, thou shalt kill a man.
    And. He shall kill two of us, and men indeed
    But that's no matter; let him kill one first.
    Win me and wear me! Let him answer me.
    Come, follow me, boy,. Come, sir boy, come follow me.
    Sir boy, I'll whip you from your foining fence!
    Nay, as I am a gentleman, I will.
  Leon. Brother--
  Ant. Content yourself. God knows I lov'd my niece,
    And she is dead, slander'd to death by villains,
    That dare as well answer a man indeed
    As I dare take a serpent by the tongue.
    Boys, apes, braggarts, jacks, milksops!
  Leon. Brother Anthony--
  Ant. Hold you content. What, man! I know them, yea,
    And what they weigh, even to the utmost scruple,
    Scambling, outfacing, fashion-monging boys,
    That lie and cog and flout, deprave and slander,
    Go anticly, show outward hideousness,
    And speak off half a dozen dang'rous words,
    How they might hurt their enemies, if they durst;
    And this is all.
  Leon. But, brother Anthony--
  Ant. Come, 'tis no matter.
    Do not you meddle; let me deal in this.
  Pedro. Gentlemen both, we will not wake your patience.
    My heart is sorry for your daughter's death;
    But, on my honour, she was charg'd with nothing
    But what was true, and very full of proof.
  Leon. My lord, my lord--
  Pedro. I will not hear you.
  Leon. No? Come, brother, away!--I will be heard.
  Ant. And shall, or some of us will smart for it.
                                                    Exeunt ambo.

                  Enter Benedick.

  Pedro. See, see! Here comes the man we went to seek.
  Claud. Now, signior, what news?
  Bene. Good day, my lord.
  Pedro. Welcome, signior. You are almost come to part almost a fray.
  Claud. We had lik'd to have had our two noses snapp'd off with two
    old men without teeth.
  Pedro. Leonato and his brother. What think'st thou? Had we fought,
    I doubt we should have been too young for them.
  Bene. In a false quarrel there is no true valour. I came to seek
    you both.
  Claud. We have been up and down to seek thee; for we are high-proof
    melancholy, and would fain have it beaten away. Wilt thou use thy
    wit?
  Bene. It is in my scabbard. Shall I draw it?
  Pedro. Dost thou wear thy wit by thy side?
  Claud. Never any did so, though very many have been beside their
    wit. I will bid thee draw, as we do the minstrel--draw to
    pleasure us.
  Pedro. As I am an honest man, he looks pale. Art thou sick or
    angry?
  Claud. What, courage, man! What though care kill'd a cat, thou hast
    mettle enough in thee to kill care.
  Bene. Sir, I shall meet your wit in the career an you charge it
    against me. I pray you choose another subject.
  Claud. Nay then, give him another staff; this last was broke cross.
  Pedro. By this light, he changes more and more. I think he be angry
    indeed.
  Claud. If he be, he knows how to turn his girdle.
  Bene. Shall I speak a word in your ear?
  Claud. God bless me from a challenge!
  Bene. [aside to Claudio] You are a villain. I jest not; I will make
    it good how you dare, with what you dare, and when you dare. Do
    me right, or I will protest your cowardice. You have kill'd a
    sweet lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you. Let me hear
    from you.
  Claud. Well, I will meet you, so I may have good cheer.
  Pedro. What, a feast, a feast?
  Claud. I' faith, I thank him, he hath bid me to a calve's head and
    a capon, the which if I do not carve most curiously, say my
    knife's naught. Shall I not find a woodcock too?
  Bene. Sir, your wit ambles well; it goes easily.
  Pedro. I'll tell thee how Beatrice prais'd thy wit the other day. I
    said thou hadst a fine wit: 'True,' said she, 'a fine little
    one.' 'No,' said I, 'a great wit.' 'Right,' says she, 'a great
    gross one.' 'Nay,' said I, 'a good wit.' 'Just,' said she, 'it
    hurts nobody.' 'Nay,' said I, 'the gentleman is wise.' 'Certain,'
    said she, a wise gentleman.' 'Nay,' said I, 'he hath the
    tongues.' 'That I believe' said she, 'for he swore a thing to me
    on Monday night which he forswore on Tuesday morning. There's a
    double tongue; there's two tongues.' Thus did she an hour
    together transshape thy particular virtues. Yet at last she
    concluded with a sigh, thou wast the proper'st man in Italy.
  Claud. For the which she wept heartily and said she cared not.
  Pedro. Yea, that she did; but yet, for all that, an if she did not
    hate him deadly, she would love him dearly. The old man's
    daughter told us all.
  Claud. All, all! and moreover, God saw him when he was hid in the
    garden.
  Pedro. But when shall we set the savage bull's horns on the
    sensible Benedick's head?
  Claud. Yea, and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick, the married
    man'?
  Bene. Fare you well, boy; you know my mind. I will leave you now to
    your gossiplike humour. You break jests as braggards do their
    blades, which God be thanked hurt not. My lord, for your many
    courtesies I thank you. I must discontinue your company. Your
    brother the bastard is fled from Messina. You have among you
    kill'd a sweet and innocent lady. For my Lord Lackbeard there, he
    and I shall meet; and till then peace be with him.
                                                         [Exit.]
  Pedro. He is in earnest.
  Claud. In most profound earnest; and, I'll warrant you, for the
    love of Beatrice.
  Pedro. And hath challeng'd thee.
  Claud. Most sincerely.
  Pedro. What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his doublet and
    hose and leaves off his wit!

  Enter Constables [Dogberry and Verges, with the Watch, leading]
                      Conrade and Borachio.

  Claud. He is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape a doctor to
    such a man.
  Pedro. But, soft you, let me be! Pluck up, my heart, and be sad!
    Did he not say my brother was fled?
  Dog. Come you, sir. If justice cannot tame you, she shall ne'er
    weigh more reasons in her balance. Nay, an you be a cursing
    hypocrite once, you must be look'd to.
  Pedro. How now? two of my brother's men bound? Borachio one.
  Claud. Hearken after their offence, my lord.
  Pedro. Officers, what offence have these men done?
  Dog. Marry, sir, they have committed false report; moreover, they
    have spoken untruths; secondarily, they are slanders; sixth and
    lastly, they have belied a lady; thirdly, they have verified
    unjust things; and to conclude, they are lying knaves.
  Pedro. First, I ask thee what they have done; thirdly, I ask thee
    what's their offence; sixth and lastly, why they are committed;
    and to conclude, what you lay to their charge.
  Claud. Rightly reasoned, and in his own division; and by my troth
    there's one meaning well suited.
  Pedro. Who have you offended, masters, that you are thus bound to
    your answer? This learned constable is too cunning to be
    understood. What's your offence?
  Bora. Sweet Prince, let me go no farther to mine answer. Do you
    hear me, and let this Count kill me. I have deceived even your
    very eyes. What your wisdoms could not discover, these shallow
    fools have brought to light, who in the night overheard me
    confessing to this man, how Don John your brother incensed me to
    slander the Lady Hero; how you were brought into the orchard and
    saw me court Margaret in Hero's garments; how you disgrac'd her
    when you should marry her. My villany they have upon record,
    which I had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my
    shame. The lady is dead upon mine and my master's false
    accusation; and briefly, I desire nothing but the reward of a
    villain.
  Pedro. Runs not this speech like iron through your blood?
  Claud. I have drunk poison whiles he utter'd it.
  Pedro. But did my brother set thee on to this?
  Bora. Yea, and paid me richly for the practice of it.
  Pedro. He is compos'd and fram'd of treachery,
    And fled he is upon this villany.
  Claud. Sweet Hero, now thy image doth appear
    In the rare semblance that I lov'd it first.
  Dog. Come, bring away the plaintiffs. By this time our sexton hath
    reformed Signior Leonato of the matter. And, masters, do not
    forget to specify, when time and place shall serve, that I am an
    ass.
  Verg. Here, here comes Master Signior Leonato, and the sexton too.

          Enter Leonato, his brother [Antonio], and the Sexton.

  Leon. Which is the villain? Let me see his eyes,
    That, when I note another man like him,
    I may avoid him. Which of these is he?
  Bora. If you would know your wronger, look on me.
  Leon. Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill'd
    Mine innocent child?
  Bora. Yea, even I alone.
  Leon. No, not so, villain! thou beliest thyself.
    Here stand a pair of honourable men--
    A third is fled--that had a hand in it.
    I thank you princes for my daughter's death.
    Record it with your high and worthy deeds.
    'Twas bravely done, if you bethink you of it.
  Claud. I know not how to pray your patience;
    Yet I must speak. Choose your revenge yourself;
    Impose me to what penance your invention
    Can lay upon my sin. Yet sinn'd I not
    But in mistaking.
  Pedro. By my soul, nor I!
    And yet, to satisfy this good old man,
    I would bend under any heavy weight
    That he'll enjoin me to.
  Leon. I cannot bid you bid my daughter live-
    That were impossible; but I pray you both,
    Possess the people in Messina here
    How innocent she died; and if your love
    Can labour aught in sad invention,
    Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb,
    And sing it to her bones--sing it to-night.
    To-morrow morning come you to my house,
    And since you could not be my son-in-law,
    Be yet my nephew. My brother hath a daughter,
    Almost the copy of my child that's dead,
    And she alone is heir to both of us.
    Give her the right you should have giv'n her cousin,
    And so dies my revenge.
  Claud. O noble sir!
    Your over-kindness doth wring tears from me.
    I do embrace your offer; and dispose
    For henceforth of poor Claudio.
  Leon. To-morrow then I will expect your coming;
    To-night I take my leave. This naughty man
    Shall fact to face be brought to Margaret,
    Who I believe was pack'd in all this wrong,
    Hir'd to it by your brother.
  Bora. No, by my soul, she was not;
    Nor knew not what she did when she spoke to me;
    But always hath been just and virtuous
    In anything that I do know by her.
  Dog. Moreover, sir, which indeed is not under white and black, this
    plaintiff here, the offender, did call me ass. I beseech you let
    it be rememb'red in his punishment. And also the watch heard them
    talk of one Deformed. They say he wears a key in his ear, and a
    lock hanging by it, and borrows money in God's name, the which he
    hath us'd so long and never paid that now men grow hard-hearted
    and will lend nothing for God's sake. Pray you examine him upon
    that point.
  Leon. I thank thee for thy care and honest pains.
  Dog. Your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverent youth,
    and I praise God for you.
  Leon. There's for thy pains. [Gives money.]
  Dog. God save the foundation!
  Leon. Go, I discharge thee of thy prisoner, and I thank thee.
  Dog. I leave an arrant knave with your worship, which I beseech
    your worship to correct yourself, for the example of others.
    God keep your worship! I wish your worship well. God restore you
    to health! I humbly give you leave to depart; and if a merry
    meeting may be wish'd, God prohibit it! Come, neighbour.
                                   Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges].
  Leon. Until to-morrow morning, lords, farewell.
  Ant. Farewell, my lords. We look for you to-morrow.
  Pedro. We will not fall.
  Claud. To-night I'll mourn with Hero.
                                 [Exeunt Don Pedro and Claudio.]
  Leon. [to the Watch] Bring you these fellows on.--We'll talk with
      Margaret,
    How her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene II.
Leonato's orchard.

Enter Benedick and Margaret [meeting].

  Bene. Pray thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at my hands
    by helping me to the speech of Beatrice.
  Marg. Will you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty?
  Bene. In so high a style, Margaret, that no man living shall come
    over it; for in most comely truth thou deservest it.
  Marg. To have no man come over me? Why, shall I always keep below
    stairs?
  Bene. Thy wit is as quick as the greyhound's mouth--it catches.
  Marg. And yours as blunt as the fencer's foils, which hit but hurt
    not.
  Bene. A most manly wit, Margaret: it will not hurt a woman.
    And so I pray thee call Beatrice. I give thee the bucklers.
  Marg. Give us the swords; we have bucklers of our own.
  Bene. If you use them, Margaret, you must put in the pikes with a
    vice, and they are dangerous weapons for maids.
  Marg. Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs.
  Bene. And therefore will come.
                                                  Exit Margaret.
       [Sings] The god of love,
               That sits above
           And knows me, and knows me,
             How pitiful I deserve--

    I mean in singing; but in loving Leander the good swimmer,
    Troilus the first employer of panders, and a whole book full of
    these quondam carpet-mongers, whose names yet run smoothly in the
    even road of a blank verse--why, they were never so truly turn'd
    over and over as my poor self in love. Marry, I cannot show it in
    rhyme. I have tried. I can find out no rhyme to 'lady' but 'baby'
    --an innocent rhyme; for 'scorn,' 'horn'--a hard rhyme; for
    'school', 'fool'--a babbling rhyme: very ominous endings! No, I
    was not born under a rhyming planet, nor cannot woo in festival
    terms.

                    Enter Beatrice.

    Sweet Beatrice, wouldst thou come when I call'd thee?
  Beat. Yea, signior, and depart when you bid me.
  Bene. O, stay but till then!
  Beat. 'Then' is spoken. Fare you well now. And yet, ere I go, let
    me go with that I came for, which is, with knowing what hath
    pass'd between you and Claudio.
  Bene. Only foul words; and thereupon I will kiss thee.
  Beat. Foul words is but foul wind, and foul wind is but foul
    breath, and foul breath is noisome. Therefore I will depart
    unkiss'd.
  Bene. Thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense, so
    forcible is thy wit. But I must tell thee plainly, Claudio
    undergoes my challenge; and either I must shortly hear from him
    or I will subscribe him a coward. And I pray thee now tell me,
    for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?
  Beat. For them all together, which maintain'd so politic a state of
    evil that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with
    them. But for which of my good parts did you first suffer love
    for me?
  Bene. Suffer love!--a good epithet. I do suffer love indeed, for I
    love thee against my will.
  Beat. In spite of your heart, I think. Alas, poor heart! If you
    spite it for my sake, I will spite it for yours, for I will never
    love that which my friend hates.
  Bene. Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably.
  Beat. It appears not in this confession. There's not one wise man
    among twenty, that will praise himself.
  Bene. An old, an old instance, Beatrice, that liv'd in the time of
    good neighbours. If a man do not erect in this age his own tomb
    ere he dies, he shall live no longer in monument than the bell
    rings and the widow weeps.
  Beat. And how long is that, think you?
  Bene. Question: why, an hour in clamour and a quarter in rheum.
    Therefore is it most expedient for the wise, if Don Worm (his
    conscience) find no impediment to the contrary, to be the trumpet
    of his own virtues, as I am to myself. So much for praising
    myself, who, I myself will bear witness, is praiseworthy. And now
    tell me, how doth your cousin?
  Beat. Very ill.
  Bene. And how do you?
  Beat. Very ill too.
  Bene. Serve God, love me, and mend. There will I leave you too, for
    here comes one in haste.

                         Enter Ursula.

  Urs. Madam, you must come to your uncle. Yonder's old coil at home.
    It is proved my Lady Hero hath been falsely accus'd, the Prince
    and Claudio mightily abus'd, and Don John is the author of all,
    who is fled and gone. Will you come presently?
  Beat. Will you go hear this news, signior?
  Bene. I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be buried thy
    eyes; and moreover, I will go with thee to thy uncle's.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene III.
A churchyard.

Enter Claudio, Don Pedro, and three or four with tapers,
[followed by Musicians].

  Claud. Is this the monument of Leonato?
  Lord. It is, my lord.
  Claud. [reads from a scroll]

                      Epitaph.

        Done to death by slanderous tongues
          Was the Hero that here lies.
        Death, in guerdon of her wrongs,
          Gives her fame which never dies.
        So the life that died with shame
        Lives in death with glorious fame.

    Hang thou there upon the tomb,
                                          [Hangs up the scroll.]
    Praising her when I am dumb.
    Now, music, sound, and sing your solemn hymn.

                     Song.

        Pardon, goddess of the night,
        Those that slew thy virgin knight;
        For the which, with songs of woe,
        Round about her tomb they go.
        Midnight, assist our moan,
        Help us to sigh and groan
          Heavily, heavily,
        Graves, yawn and yield your dead,
        Till death be uttered
          Heavily, heavily.

  Claud. Now unto thy bones good night!
    Yearly will I do this rite.
  Pedro. Good morrow, masters. Put your torches out.
    The wolves have prey'd, and look, the gentle day,
    Before the wheels of Phoebus, round about
    Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey.
    Thanks to you all, and leave us. Fare you well.
  Claud. Good morrow, masters. Each his several way.
  Pedro. Come, let us hence and put on other weeds,
    And then to Leonato's we will go.
  Claud. And Hymen now with luckier issue speeds
    Than this for whom we rend'red up this woe.          Exeunt.




Scene IV
The hall in Leonato's house.

Enter Leonato, Benedick, [Beatrice,] Margaret, Ursula, Antonio,
Friar [Francis], Hero.

  Friar. Did I not tell you she was innocent?
  Leon. So are the Prince and Claudio, who accus'd her
    Upon the error that you heard debated.
    But Margaret was in some fault for this,
    Although against her will, as it appears
    In the true course of all the question.
  Ant. Well, I am glad that all things sort so well.
  Bene. And so am I, being else by faith enforc'd
    To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it.
  Leon. Well, daughter, and you gentlewomen all,
    Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves,
    And when I send for you, come hither mask'd.
                                                  Exeunt Ladies.
    The Prince and Claudio promis'd by this hour
    To visit me. You know your office, brother:
    You must be father to your brother's daughter,
    And give her to young Claudio.
  Ant. Which I will do with confirm'd countenance.
  Bene. Friar, I must entreat your pains, I think.
  Friar. To do what, signior?
  Bene. To bind me, or undo me--one of them.
    Signior Leonato, truth it is, good signior,
    Your niece regards me with an eye of favour.
  Leon. That eye my daughter lent her. 'Tis most true.
  Bene. And I do with an eye of love requite her.
  Leon. The sight whereof I think you had from me,
    From Claudio, and the Prince; but what's your will?
  Bene. Your answer, sir, is enigmatical;
    But, for my will, my will is, your good will
    May stand with ours, this day to be conjoin'd
    In the state of honourable marriage;
    In which, good friar, I shall desire your help.
  Leon. My heart is with your liking.
  Friar. And my help.

       Enter Don Pedro and Claudio and two or three other.

    Here comes the Prince and Claudio.
  Pedro. Good morrow to this fair assembly.
  Leon. Good morrow, Prince; good morrow, Claudio.
    We here attend you. Are you yet determin'd
    To-day to marry with my brother's daughter?
  Claud. I'll hold my mind, were she an Ethiope.
  Leon. Call her forth, brother. Here's the friar ready.
                                                 [Exit Antonio.]
  Pedro. Good morrow, Benedick. Why, what's the matter
    That you have such a February face,
    So full of frost, of storm, and cloudiness?
  Claud. I think he thinks upon the savage bull.
    Tush, fear not, man! We'll tip thy horns with gold,
    And all Europa shall rejoice at thee,
    As once Europa did at lusty Jove
    When he would play the noble beast in love.
  Bene. Bull Jove, sir, had an amiable low,
    And some such strange bull leap'd your father's cow
    And got a calf in that same noble feat
    Much like to you, for you have just his bleat.

       Enter [Leonato's] brother [Antonio], Hero, Beatrice,
            Margaret, Ursula, [the ladies wearing masks].

  Claud. For this I owe you. Here comes other reckonings.
    Which is the lady I must seize upon?
  Ant. This same is she, and I do give you her.
  Claud. Why then, she's mine. Sweet, let me see your face.
  Leon. No, that you shall not till you take her hand
    Before this friar and swear to marry her.
  Claud. Give me your hand before this holy friar.
    I am your husband if you like of me.
  Hero. And when I liv'd I was your other wife;       [Unmasks.]
    And when you lov'd you were my other husband.
  Claud. Another Hero!
  Hero. Nothing certainer.
    One Hero died defil'd; but I do live,
    And surely as I live, I am a maid.
  Pedro. The former Hero! Hero that is dead!
  Leon. She died, my lord, but whiles her slander liv'd.
  Friar. All this amazement can I qualify,
    When, after that the holy rites are ended,
    I'll tell you largely of fair Hero's death.
    Meantime let wonder seem familiar,
    And to the chapel let us presently.
  Bene. Soft and fair, friar. Which is Beatrice?
  Beat. [unmasks] I answer to that name. What is your will?
  Bene. Do not you love me?
  Beat. Why, no; no more than reason.
  Bene. Why, then your uncle, and the Prince, and Claudio
    Have been deceived; for they swore you did.
  Beat. Do not you love me?
  Bene. Troth, no; no more than reason.
  Beat. Why, then my cousin, Margaret, and Ursula
    Are much deceiv'd; for they did swear you did.
  Bene. They swore that you were almost sick for me.
  Beat. They swore that you were well-nigh dead for me.
  Bene. 'Tis no such matter. Then you do not love me?
  Beat. No, truly, but in friendly recompense.
  Leon. Come, cousin, I am sure you love the gentleman.
  Claud. And I'll be sworn upon't that he loves her;
    For here's a paper written in his hand,
    A halting sonnet of his own pure brain,
    Fashion'd to Beatrice.
  Hero. And here's another,
    Writ in my cousin's hand, stol'n from her pocket,
    Containing her affection unto Benedick.
  Bene. A miracle! Here's our own hands against our hearts.
    Come, I will have thee; but, by this light, I take thee for pity.
  Beat. I would not deny you; but, by this good day, I yield upon
    great persuasion, and partly to save your life, for I was told
    you were in a consumption.
  Bene. Peace! I will stop your mouth.             [Kisses her.]
  Beat. I'll tell thee what, Prince: a college of wit-crackers cannot
    flout me out of my humour. Dost thou think I care for a satire or
    an epigram? No. If a man will be beaten with brains, 'a shall
    wear nothing handsome about him. In brief, since I do purpose to
    marry, I will think nothing to any purpose that the world can say
    against it; and therefore never flout at me for what I have said
    against it; for man is a giddy thing, and this is my conclusion.
    For thy part, Claudio, I did think to have beaten thee; but in
    that thou art like to be my kinsman, live unbruis'd, and love my
    cousin.
  Claud. I had well hop'd thou wouldst have denied Beatrice, that I
    might have cudgell'd thee out of thy single life, to make thee a
    double-dealer, which out of question thou wilt be if my cousin do
    not look exceeding narrowly to thee.
  Bene. Come, come, we are friends. Let's have a dance ere we are
    married, that we may lighten our own hearts and our wives' heels.
  Leon. We'll have dancing afterward.
  Bene. First, of my word! Therefore play, music. Prince, thou art
    sad. Get thee a wife, get thee a wife! There is no staff more
    reverent than one tipp'd with horn.

                       Enter Messenger.

  Mess. My lord, your brother John is ta'en in flight,
    And brought with armed men back to Messina.
  Bene. Think not on him till to-morrow. I'll devise thee brave
    punishments for him. Strike up, pipers!
                                                Dance. [Exeunt.]


THE END



<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>









<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>





1596


KING RICHARD THE SECOND


by William Shakespeare



DRAMATIS PERSONAE

  KING RICHARD THE SECOND
  JOHN OF GAUNT, Duke of Lancaster - uncle to the King
  EDMUND LANGLEY, Duke of York - uncle to the King
  HENRY, surnamed BOLINGBROKE, Duke of Hereford, son of
    John of Gaunt, afterwards King Henry IV
  DUKE OF AUMERLE, son of the Duke of York
  THOMAS MOWBRAY, Duke of Norfolk
  DUKE OF SURREY
  EARL OF SALISBURY
  EARL BERKELEY
  BUSHY - favourites of King Richard
  BAGOT -     "      "   "     "
  GREEN -     "      "   "     "
  EARL OF NORTHUMBERLAND
  HENRY PERCY, surnamed HOTSPUR, his son
  LORD Ross                             LORD WILLOUGHBY
  LORD FITZWATER                        BISHOP OF CARLISLE
  ABBOT OF WESTMINSTER                  LORD MARSHAL
  SIR STEPHEN SCROOP                    SIR PIERCE OF EXTON
  CAPTAIN of a band of Welshmen         TWO GARDENERS

  QUEEN to King Richard
  DUCHESS OF YORK
  DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER, widow of Thomas of Woodstock,
    Duke of Gloucester
  LADY attending on the Queen

  Lords, Heralds, Officers, Soldiers, Keeper, Messenger,
    Groom, and other Attendants




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



SCENE:
England and Wales


ACT I. SCENE I.
London. The palace

Enter RICHARD, JOHN OF GAUNT, with other NOBLES and attendants

  KING RICHARD. Old John of Gaunt, time-honoured Lancaster,
    Hast thou, according to thy oath and band,
    Brought hither Henry Hereford, thy bold son,
    Here to make good the boist'rous late appeal,
    Which then our leisure would not let us hear,
    Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
  GAUNT. I have, my liege.
  KING RICHARD. Tell me, moreover, hast thou sounded him
    If he appeal the Duke on ancient malice,
    Or worthily, as a good subject should,
    On some known ground of treachery in him?
  GAUNT. As near as I could sift him on that argument,
    On some apparent danger seen in him
    Aim'd at your Highness-no inveterate malice.
  KING RICHARD. Then call them to our presence: face to face
    And frowning brow to brow, ourselves will hear
    The accuser and the accused freely speak.
    High-stomach'd are they both and full of ire,
    In rage, deaf as the sea, hasty as fire.

         Enter BOLINGBROKE and MOWBRAY

  BOLINGBROKE. Many years of happy days befall
    My gracious sovereign, my most loving liege!
  MOWBRAY. Each day still better other's happiness
    Until the heavens, envying earth's good hap,
    Add an immortal title to your crown!
  KING RICHARD. We thank you both; yet one but flatters us,
    As well appeareth by the cause you come;
    Namely, to appeal each other of high treason.
    Cousin of Hereford, what dost thou object
    Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
  BOLINGBROKE. First-heaven be the record to my speech!
    In the devotion of a subject's love,
    Tend'ring the precious safety of my prince,
    And free from other misbegotten hate,
    Come I appellant to this princely presence.
    Now, Thomas Mowbray, do I turn to thee,
    And mark my greeting well; for what I speak
    My body shall make good upon this earth,
    Or my divine soul answer it in heaven-
    Thou art a traitor and a miscreant,
    Too good to be so, and too bad to live,
    Since the more fair and crystal is the sky,
    The uglier seem the clouds that in it fly.
    Once more, the more to aggravate the note,
    With a foul traitor's name stuff I thy throat;
    And wish-so please my sovereign-ere I move,
    What my tongue speaks, my right drawn sword may prove.
  MOWBRAY. Let not my cold words here accuse my zeal.
    'Tis not the trial of a woman's war,
    The bitter clamour of two eager tongues,
    Can arbitrate this cause betwixt us twain;
    The blood is hot that must be cool'd for this.
    Yet can I not of such tame patience boast
    As to be hush'd and nought at an to say.
    First, the fair reverence of your Highness curbs me
    From giving reins and spurs to my free speech;
    Which else would post until it had return'd
    These terms of treason doubled down his throat.
    Setting aside his high blood's royalty,
    And let him be no kinsman to my liege,
    I do defy him, and I spit at him,
    Call him a slanderous coward and a villain;
    Which to maintain, I would allow him odds
    And meet him, were I tied to run afoot
    Even to the frozen ridges of the Alps,
    Or any other ground inhabitable
    Where ever Englishman durst set his foot.
    Meantime let this defend my loyalty-
    By all my hopes, most falsely doth he lie
  BOLINGBROKE. Pale trembling coward, there I throw my gage,
    Disclaiming here the kindred of the King;
    And lay aside my high blood's royalty,
    Which fear, not reverence, makes thee to except.
    If guilty dread have left thee so much strength
    As to take up mine honour's pawn, then stoop.
    By that and all the rites of knighthood else
    Will I make good against thee, arm to arm,
    What I have spoke or thou canst worst devise.
  MOWBRAY. I take it up; and by that sword I swear
    Which gently laid my knighthood on my shoulder
    I'll answer thee in any fair degree
    Or chivalrous design of knightly trial;
    And when I mount, alive may I not light
    If I be traitor or unjustly fight!
  KING RICHARD. What doth our cousin lay to Mowbray's charge?
    It must be great that can inherit us
    So much as of a thought of ill in him.
  BOLINGBROKE. Look what I speak, my life shall prove it true-
    That Mowbray hath receiv'd eight thousand nobles
    In name of lendings for your Highness' soldiers,
    The which he hath detain'd for lewd employments
    Like a false traitor and injurious villain.
    Besides, I say and will in battle prove-
    Or here, or elsewhere to the furthest verge
    That ever was survey'd by English eye-
    That all the treasons for these eighteen years
    Complotted and contrived in this land
    Fetch from false Mowbray their first head and spring.
    Further I say, and further will maintain
    Upon his bad life to make all this good,
    That he did plot the Duke of Gloucester's death,
    Suggest his soon-believing adversaries,
    And consequently, like a traitor coward,
    Sluic'd out his innocent soul through streams of blood;
    Which blood, like sacrificing Abel's, cries,
    Even from the tongueless caverns of the earth,
    To me for justice and rough chastisement;
    And, by the glorious worth of my descent,
    This arm shall do it, or this life be spent.
  KING RICHARD. How high a pitch his resolution soars!
    Thomas of Norfolk, what say'st thou to this?
  MOWBRAY. O, let my sovereign turn away his face
    And bid his ears a little while be deaf,
    Till I have told this slander of his blood
    How God and good men hate so foul a liar.
  KING RICHARD. Mowbray, impartial are our eyes and cars.
    Were he my brother, nay, my kingdom's heir,
    As he is but my father's brother's son,
    Now by my sceptre's awe I make a vow,
    Such neighbour nearness to our sacred blood
    Should nothing privilege him nor partialize
    The unstooping firmness of my upright soul.
    He is our subject, Mowbray; so art thou:
    Free speech and fearless I to thee allow.
  MOWBRAY. Then, Bolingbroke, as low as to thy heart,
    Through the false passage of thy throat, thou liest.
    Three parts of that receipt I had for Calais
    Disburs'd I duly to his Highness' soldiers;
    The other part reserv'd I by consent,
    For that my sovereign liege was in my debt
    Upon remainder of a dear account
    Since last I went to France to fetch his queen:
    Now swallow down that lie. For Gloucester's death-
    I slew him not, but to my own disgrace
    Neglected my sworn duty in that case.
    For you, my noble Lord of Lancaster,
    The honourable father to my foe,
    Once did I lay an ambush for your life,
    A trespass that doth vex my grieved soul;
    But ere I last receiv'd the sacrament
    I did confess it, and exactly begg'd
    Your Grace's pardon; and I hope I had it.
    This is my fault. As for the rest appeal'd,
    It issues from the rancour of a villain,
    A recreant and most degenerate traitor;
    Which in myself I boldly will defend,
    And interchangeably hurl down my gage
    Upon this overweening traitor's foot
    To prove myself a loyal gentleman
    Even in the best blood chamber'd in his bosom.
    In haste whereof, most heartily I pray
    Your Highness to assign our trial day.
  KING RICHARD. Wrath-kindled gentlemen, be rul'd by me;
    Let's purge this choler without letting blood-
    This we prescribe, though no physician;
    Deep malice makes too deep incision.
    Forget, forgive; conclude and be agreed:
    Our doctors say this is no month to bleed.
    Good uncle, let this end where it begun;
    We'll calm the Duke of Norfolk, you your son.
  GAUNT. To be a make-peace shall become my age.
    Throw down, my son, the Duke of Norfolk's gage.
  KING RICHARD. And, Norfolk, throw down his.
  GAUNT. When, Harry, when?
    Obedience bids I should not bid again.
  KING RICHARD. Norfolk, throw down; we bid.
    There is no boot.
  MOWBRAY. Myself I throw, dread sovereign, at thy foot;
    My life thou shalt command, but not my shame:
    The one my duty owes; but my fair name,
    Despite of death, that lives upon my grave
    To dark dishonour's use thou shalt not have.
    I am disgrac'd, impeach'd, and baffl'd here;
    Pierc'd to the soul with slander's venom'd spear,
    The which no balm can cure but his heart-blood
    Which breath'd this poison.
  KING RICHARD. Rage must be withstood:
    Give me his gage-lions make leopards tame.
  MOWBRAY. Yea, but not change his spots. Take but my shame,
    And I resign my gage. My dear dear lord,
    The purest treasure mortal times afford
    Is spotless reputation; that away,
    Men are but gilded loam or painted clay.
    A jewel in a ten-times barr'd-up chest
    Is a bold spirit in a loyal breast.
    Mine honour is my life; both grow in one;
    Take honour from me, and my life is done:
    Then, dear my liege, mine honour let me try;
    In that I live, and for that will I die.
  KING RICHARD. Cousin, throw up your gage; do you begin.
  BOLINGBROKE. O, God defend my soul from such deep sin!
    Shall I seem crest-fallen in my father's sight?
    Or with pale beggar-fear impeach my height
    Before this outdar'd dastard? Ere my tongue
    Shall wound my honour with such feeble wrong
    Or sound so base a parle, my teeth shall tear
    The slavish motive of recanting fear,
    And spit it bleeding in his high disgrace,
    Where shame doth harbour, even in Mowbray's face.
                                                      Exit GAUNT
  KING RICHARD. We were not born to sue, but to command;
    Which since we cannot do to make you friends,
    Be ready, as your lives shall answer it,
    At Coventry, upon Saint Lambert's day.
    There shall your swords and lances arbitrate
    The swelling difference of your settled hate;
    Since we can not atone you, we shall see
    Justice design the victor's chivalry.
    Lord Marshal, command our officers-at-arms
    Be ready to direct these home alarms.                 Exeunt




SCENE 2.
London. The DUKE OF LANCASTER'S palace

Enter JOHN OF GAUNT with the DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER

  GAUNT. Alas, the part I had in Woodstock's blood
    Doth more solicit me than your exclaims
    To stir against the butchers of his life!
    But since correction lieth in those hands
    Which made the fault that we cannot correct,
    Put we our quarrel to the will of heaven;
    Who, when they see the hours ripe on earth,
    Will rain hot vengeance on offenders' heads.
  DUCHESS. Finds brotherhood in thee no sharper spur?
    Hath love in thy old blood no living fire?
    Edward's seven sons, whereof thyself art one,
    Were as seven vials of his sacred blood,
    Or seven fair branches springing from one root.
    Some of those seven are dried by nature's course,
    Some of those branches by the Destinies cut;
    But Thomas, my dear lord, my life, my Gloucester,
    One vial full of Edward's sacred blood,
    One flourishing branch of his most royal root,
    Is crack'd, and all the precious liquor spilt;
    Is hack'd down, and his summer leaves all faded,
    By envy's hand and murder's bloody axe.
    Ah, Gaunt, his blood was thine! That bed, that womb,
    That mettle, that self mould, that fashion'd thee,
    Made him a man; and though thou livest and breathest,
    Yet art thou slain in him. Thou dost consent
    In some large measure to thy father's death
    In that thou seest thy wretched brother die,
    Who was the model of thy father's life.
    Call it not patience, Gaunt-it is despair;
    In suff'ring thus thy brother to be slaught'red,
    Thou showest the naked pathway to thy life,
    Teaching stern murder how to butcher thee.
    That which in mean men we entitle patience
    Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts.
    What shall I say? To safeguard thine own life
    The best way is to venge my Gloucester's death.
  GAUNT. God's is the quarrel; for God's substitute,
    His deputy anointed in His sight,
    Hath caus'd his death; the which if wrongfully,
    Let heaven revenge; for I may never lift
    An angry arm against His minister.
  DUCHESS. Where then, alas, may I complain myself?
  GAUNT. To God, the widow's champion and defence.
  DUCHESS. Why then, I will. Farewell, old Gaunt.
    Thou goest to Coventry, there to behold
    Our cousin Hereford and fell Mowbray fight.
    O, sit my husband's wrongs on Hereford's spear,
    That it may enter butcher Mowbray's breast!
    Or, if misfortune miss the first career,
    Be Mowbray's sins so heavy in his bosom
    That they may break his foaming courser's back
    And throw the rider headlong in the lists,
    A caitiff recreant to my cousin Hereford!
    Farewell, old Gaunt; thy sometimes brother's wife,
    With her companion, Grief, must end her life.
  GAUNT. Sister, farewell; I must to Coventry.
    As much good stay with thee as go with me!
  DUCHESS. Yet one word more- grief boundeth where it falls,
    Not with the empty hollowness, but weight.
    I take my leave before I have begun,
    For sorrow ends not when it seemeth done.
    Commend me to thy brother, Edmund York.
    Lo, this is all- nay, yet depart not so;
    Though this be all, do not so quickly go;
    I shall remember more. Bid him- ah, what?-
    With all good speed at Plashy visit me.
    Alack, and what shall good old York there see
    But empty lodgings and unfurnish'd walls,
    Unpeopled offices, untrodden stones?
    And what hear there for welcome but my groans?
    Therefore commend me; let him not come there
    To seek out sorrow that dwells every where.
    Desolate, desolate, will I hence and die;
    The last leave of thee takes my weeping eye.          Exeunt




SCENE 3.
The lists at Coventry

Enter the LORD MARSHAL and the DUKE OF AUMERLE

  MARSHAL. My Lord Aumerle, is Harry Hereford arm'd?
  AUMERLE. Yea, at all points; and longs to enter in.
  MARSHAL. The Duke of Norfolk, spightfully and bold,
    Stays but the summons of the appelant's trumpet.
  AUMERLE. Why then, the champions are prepar'd, and stay
    For nothing but his Majesty's approach.

     The trumpets sound, and the KING enters with his nobles,
     GAUNT, BUSHY, BAGOT, GREEN, and others. When they are set,
     enter MOWBRAY, Duke of Nor folk, in arms, defendant, and
     a HERALD

  KING RICHARD. Marshal, demand of yonder champion
    The cause of his arrival here in arms;
    Ask him his name; and orderly proceed
    To swear him in the justice of his cause.
  MARSHAL. In God's name and the King's, say who thou art,
    And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms;
    Against what man thou com'st, and what thy quarrel.
    Speak truly on thy knighthood and thy oath;
    As so defend thee heaven and thy valour!
  MOWBRAY. My name is Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk;
    Who hither come engaged by my oath-
    Which God defend a knight should violate!-
    Both to defend my loyalty and truth
    To God, my King, and my succeeding issue,
    Against the Duke of Hereford that appeals me;
    And, by the grace of God and this mine arm,
    To prove him, in defending of myself,
    A traitor to my God, my King, and me.
    And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!

   The trumpets sound. Enter BOLINGBROKE, Duke of Hereford,
            appellant, in armour, and a HERALD

  KING RICHARD. Marshal, ask yonder knight in arms,
    Both who he is and why he cometh hither
    Thus plated in habiliments of war;
    And formally, according to our law,
    Depose him in the justice of his cause.
  MARSHAL. What is thy name? and wherefore com'st thou hither
    Before King Richard in his royal lists?
    Against whom comest thou? and what's thy quarrel?
    Speak like a true knight, so defend thee heaven!
  BOLINGBROKE. Harry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
    Am I; who ready here do stand in arms
    To prove, by God's grace and my body's valour,
    In lists on Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
    That he is a traitor, foul and dangerous,
    To God of heaven, King Richard, and to me.
    And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
  MARSHAL. On pain of death, no person be so bold
    Or daring-hardy as to touch the lists,
    Except the Marshal and such officers
    Appointed to direct these fair designs.
  BOLINGBROKE. Lord Marshal, let me kiss my sovereign's hand,
    And bow my knee before his Majesty;
    For Mowbray and myself are like two men
    That vow a long and weary pilgrimage.
    Then let us take a ceremonious leave
    And loving farewell of our several friends.
  MARSHAL. The appellant in all duty greets your Highness,
    And craves to kiss your hand and take his leave.
  KING RICHARD. We will descend and fold him in our arms.
    Cousin of Hereford, as thy cause is right,
    So be thy fortune in this royal fight!
    Farewell, my blood; which if to-day thou shed,
    Lament we may, but not revenge thee dead.
  BOLINGBROKE. O, let no noble eye profane a tear
    For me, if I be gor'd with Mowbray's spear.
    As confident as is the falcon's flight
    Against a bird, do I with Mowbray fight.
    My loving lord, I take my leave of you;
    Of you, my noble cousin, Lord Aumerle;
    Not sick, although I have to do with death,
    But lusty, young, and cheerly drawing breath.
    Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet
    The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet.
    O thou, the earthly author of my blood,
    Whose youthful spirit, in me regenerate,
    Doth with a twofold vigour lift me up
    To reach at victory above my head,
    Add proof unto mine armour with thy prayers,
    And with thy blessings steel my lance's point,
    That it may enter Mowbray's waxen coat
    And furbish new the name of John o' Gaunt,
    Even in the lusty haviour of his son.
  GAUNT. God in thy good cause make thee prosperous!
    Be swift like lightning in the execution,
    And let thy blows, doubly redoubled,
    Fall like amazing thunder on the casque
    Of thy adverse pernicious enemy.
    Rouse up thy youthful blood, be valiant, and live.
  BOLINGBROKE. Mine innocence and Saint George to thrive!
  MOWBRAY. However God or fortune cast my lot,
    There lives or dies, true to King Richard's throne,
    A loyal, just, and upright gentleman.
    Never did captive with a freer heart
    Cast off his chains of bondage, and embrace
    His golden uncontroll'd enfranchisement,
    More than my dancing soul doth celebrate
    This feast of battle with mine adversary.
    Most mighty liege, and my companion peers,
    Take from my mouth the wish of happy years.
    As gentle and as jocund as to jest
    Go I to fight: truth hath a quiet breast.
  KING RICHARD. Farewell, my lord, securely I espy
    Virtue with valour couched in thine eye.
    Order the trial, Marshal, and begin.
  MARSHAL. Harry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
    Receive thy lance; and God defend the right!
  BOLINGBROKE. Strong as a tower in hope, I cry amen.
  MARSHAL. [To an officer] Go bear this lance to Thomas,
      Duke of Norfolk.
  FIRST HERALD. Harry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
    Stands here for God, his sovereign, and himself,
    On pain to be found false and recreant,
    To prove the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray,
    A traitor to his God, his King, and him;
    And dares him to set forward to the fight.
  SECOND HERALD. Here standeth Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
    On pain to be found false and recreant,
    Both to defend himself, and to approve
    Henry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
    To God, his sovereign, and to him disloyal,
    Courageously and with a free desire
    Attending but the signal to begin.
  MARSHAL. Sound trumpets; and set forward, combatants.
                                           [A charge sounded]
    Stay, the King hath thrown his warder down.
  KING RICHARD. Let them lay by their helmets and their spears,
    And both return back to their chairs again.
    Withdraw with us; and let the trumpets sound
    While we return these dukes what we decree.

    A long flourish, while the KING consults his Council

    Draw near,
    And list what with our council we have done.
    For that our kingdom's earth should not be soil'd
    With that dear blood which it hath fostered;
    And for our eyes do hate the dire aspect
    Of civil wounds plough'd up with neighbours' sword;
    And for we think the eagle-winged pride
    Of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts,
    With rival-hating envy, set on you
    To wake our peace, which in our country's cradle
    Draws the sweet infant breath of gentle sleep;
    Which so rous'd up with boist'rous untun'd drums,
    With harsh-resounding trumpets' dreadful bray,
    And grating shock of wrathful iron arms,
    Might from our quiet confines fright fair peace
    And make us wade even in our kindred's blood-
    Therefore we banish you our territories.
    You, cousin Hereford, upon pain of life,
    Till twice five summers have enrich'd our fields
    Shall not regreet our fair dominions,
    But tread the stranger paths of banishment.
  BOLINGBROKE. Your will be done. This must my comfort be-
    That sun that warms you here shall shine on me,
    And those his golden beams to you here lent
    Shall point on me and gild my banishment.
  KING RICHARD. Norfolk, for thee remains a heavier doom,
    Which I with some unwillingness pronounce:
    The sly slow hours shall not determinate
    The dateless limit of thy dear exile;
    The hopeless word of 'never to return'
    Breathe I against thee, upon pain of life.
  MOWBRAY. A heavy sentence, my most sovereign liege,
    And all unlook'd for from your Highness' mouth.
    A dearer merit, not so deep a maim
    As to be cast forth in the common air,
    Have I deserved at your Highness' hands.
    The language I have learnt these forty years,
    My native English, now I must forgo;
    And now my tongue's use is to me no more
    Than an unstringed viol or a harp;
    Or like a cunning instrument cas'd up
    Or, being open, put into his hands
    That knows no touch to tune the harmony.
    Within my mouth you have engaol'd my tongue,
    Doubly portcullis'd with my teeth and lips;
    And dull, unfeeling, barren ignorance
    Is made my gaoler to attend on me.
    I am too old to fawn upon a nurse,
    Too far in years to be a pupil now.
    What is thy sentence, then, but speechless death,
    Which robs my tongue from breathing native breath?
  KING RICHARD. It boots thee not to be compassionate;
    After our sentence plaining comes too late.
  MOWBRAY. Then thus I turn me from my countrv's light,
    To dwell in solemn shades of endless night.
  KING RICHARD. Return again, and take an oath with thee.
    Lay on our royal sword your banish'd hands;
    Swear by the duty that you owe to God,
    Our part therein we banish with yourselves,
    To keep the oath that we administer:
    You never shall, so help you truth and God,
    Embrace each other's love in banishment;
    Nor never look upon each other's face;
    Nor never write, regreet, nor reconcile
    This louring tempest of your home-bred hate;
    Nor never by advised purpose meet
    To plot, contrive, or complot any ill,
    'Gainst us, our state, our subjects, or our land.
  BOLINGBROKE. I swear.
  MOWBRAY. And I, to keep all this.
  BOLINGBROKE. Norfolk, so far as to mine enemy.
    By this time, had the King permitted us,
    One of our souls had wand'red in the air,
    Banish'd this frail sepulchre of our flesh,
    As now our flesh is banish'd from this land-
    Confess thy treasons ere thou fly the realm;
    Since thou hast far to go, bear not along
    The clogging burden of a guilty soul.
  MOWBRAY. No, Bolingbroke; if ever I were traitor,
    My name be blotted from the book of life,
    And I from heaven banish'd as from hence!
    But what thou art, God, thou, and I, do know;
    And all too soon, I fear, the King shall rue.
    Farewell, my liege. Now no way can I stray:
    Save back to England, an the world's my way.            Exit
  KING RICHARD. Uncle, even in the glasses of thine eyes
    I see thy grieved heart. Thy sad aspect
    Hath from the number of his banish'd years
    Pluck'd four away. [To BOLINGBROKE] Six frozen winters spent,
    Return with welcome home from banishment.
  BOLINGBROKE. How long a time lies in one little word!
    Four lagging winters and four wanton springs
    End in a word: such is the breath of Kings.
  GAUNT. I thank my liege that in regard of me
    He shortens four years of my son's exile;
    But little vantage shall I reap thereby,
    For ere the six years that he hath to spend
    Can change their moons and bring their times about,
    My oil-dried lamp and time-bewasted light
    Shall be extinct with age and endless night;
    My inch of taper will be burnt and done,
    And blindfold death not let me see my son.
  KING RICHARD. Why, uncle, thou hast many years to live.
  GAUNT. But not a minute, King, that thou canst give:
    Shorten my days thou canst with sullen sorrow
    And pluck nights from me, but not lend a morrow;
    Thou can'st help time to furrow me with age,
    But stop no wrinkle in his pilgrimage;
    Thy word is current with him for my death,
    But dead, thy kingdom cannot buy my breath.
  KING RICHARD. Thy son is banish'd upon good advice,
    Whereto thy tongue a party-verdict gave.
    Why at our justice seem'st thou then to lour?
  GAUNT. Things sweet to taste prove in digestion sour.
    You urg'd me as a judge; but I had rather
    You would have bid me argue like a father.
    O, had it been a stranger, not my child,
    To smooth his fault I should have been more mild.
    A partial slander sought I to avoid,
    And in the sentence my own life destroy'd.
    Alas, I look'd when some of you should say
    I was too strict to make mine own away;
    But you gave leave to my unwilling tongue
    Against my will to do myself this wrong.
  KING RICHARD. Cousin, farewell; and, uncle, bid him so.
    Six years we banish him, and he shall go.
                                  Flourish. Exit KING with train
  AUMERLE. Cousin, farewell; what presence must not know,
    From where you do remain let paper show.
  MARSHAL. My lord, no leave take I, for I will ride
    As far as land will let me by your side.
  GAUNT. O, to what purpose dost thou hoard thy words,
    That thou returnest no greeting to thy friends?
  BOLINGBROKE. I have too few to take my leave of you,
    When the tongue's office should be prodigal
    To breathe the abundant dolour of the heart.
  GAUNT. Thy grief is but thy absence for a time.
  BOLINGBROKE. Joy absent, grief is present for that time.
  GAUNT. What is six winters? They are quickly gone.
  BOLINGBROKE. To men in joy; but grief makes one hour ten.
  GAUNT. Call it a travel that thou tak'st for pleasure.
  BOLINGBROKE. My heart will sigh when I miscall it so,
    Which finds it an enforced pilgrimage.
  GAUNT. The sullen passage of thy weary steps
    Esteem as foil wherein thou art to set
    The precious jewel of thy home return.
  BOLINGBROKE. Nay, rather, every tedious stride I make
    Will but remember me what a deal of world
    I wander from the jewels that I love.
    Must I not serve a long apprenticehood
    To foreign passages; and in the end,
    Having my freedom, boast of nothing else
    But that I was a journeyman to grief?
  GAUNT. All places that the eye of heaven visits
    Are to a wise man ports and happy havens.
    Teach thy necessity to reason thus:
    There is no virtue like necessity.
    Think not the King did banish thee,
    But thou the King. Woe doth the heavier sit
    Where it perceives it is but faintly home.
    Go, say I sent thee forth to purchase honour,
    And not the King exil'd thee; or suppose
    Devouring pestilence hangs in our air
    And thou art flying to a fresher clime.
    Look what thy soul holds dear, imagine it
    To lie that way thou goest, not whence thou com'st.
    Suppose the singing birds musicians,
    The grass whereon thou tread'st the presence strew'd,
    The flowers fair ladies, and thy steps no more
    Than a delightful measure or a dance;
    For gnarling sorrow hath less power to bite
    The man that mocks at it and sets it light.
  BOLINGBROKE. O, who can hold a fire in his hand
    By thinking on the frosty Caucasus?
    Or cloy the hungry edge of appetite
    By bare imagination of a feast?
    Or wallow naked in December snow
    By thinking on fantastic summer's heat?
    O, no! the apprehension of the good
    Gives but the greater feeling to the worse.
    Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more
    Than when he bites, but lanceth not the sore.
  GAUNT. Come, come, my son, I'll bring thee on thy way.
    Had I thy youtli and cause, I would not stay.
  BOLINGBROKE. Then, England's ground, farewell; sweet soil, adieu;
    My mother, and my nurse, that bears me yet!
    Where'er I wander, boast of this I can:
    Though banish'd, yet a trueborn English man.          Exeunt




SCENE 4.
London. The court

Enter the KING, with BAGOT and GREEN, at one door;
and the DUKE OF AUMERLE at another

  KING RICHARD. We did observe. Cousin Aumerle,
    How far brought you high Hereford on his way?
  AUMERLE. I brought high Hereford, if you call him so,
    But to the next high way, and there I left him.
  KING RICHARD. And say, what store of parting tears were shed?
  AUMERLE. Faith, none for me; except the north-east wind,
    Which then blew bitterly against our faces,
    Awak'd the sleeping rheum, and so by chance
    Did grace our hollow parting with a tear.
  KING RICHARD. What said our cousin when you parted with him?
  AUMERLE. 'Farewell.'
    And, for my heart disdained that my tongue
    Should so profane the word, that taught me craft
    To counterfeit oppression of such grief
    That words seem'd buried in my sorrow's grave.
    Marry, would the word 'farewell' have length'ned hours
    And added years to his short banishment,
    He should have had a volume of farewells;
    But since it would not, he had none of me.
  KING RICHARD. He is our cousin, cousin; but 'tis doubt,
    When time shall call him home from banishment,
    Whether our kinsman come to see his friends.
    Ourself, and Bushy, Bagot here, and Green,
    Observ'd his courtship to the common people;
    How he did seem to dive into their hearts
    With humble and familiar courtesy;
    What reverence he did throw away on slaves,
    Wooing poor craftsmen with the craft of smiles
    And patient underbearing of his fortune,
    As 'twere to banish their affects with him.
    Off goes his bonnet to an oyster-wench;
    A brace of draymen bid God speed him well
    And had the tribute of his supple knee,
    With 'Thanks, my countrymen, my loving friends';
    As were our England in reversion his,
    And he our subjects' next degree in hope.
  GREEN. Well, he is gone; and with him go these thoughts!
    Now for the rebels which stand out in Ireland,
    Expedient manage must be made, my liege,
    Ere further leisure yicld them further means
    For their advantage and your Highness' loss.
  KING RICHARD. We will ourself in person to this war;
    And, for our coffers, with too great a court
    And liberal largess, are grown somewhat light,
    We are enforc'd to farm our royal realm;
    The revenue whereof shall furnish us
    For our affairs in hand. If that come short,
    Our substitutes at home shall have blank charters;
    Whereto, when they shall know what men are rich,
    They shall subscribe them for large sums of gold,
    And send them after to supply our wants;
    For we will make for Ireland presently.

                     Enter BUSHY

    Bushy, what news?
  BUSHY. Old John of Gaunt is grievous sick, my lord,
    Suddenly taken; and hath sent poste-haste
    To entreat your Majesty to visit him.
  KING RICHARD. Where lies he?
  BUSHY. At Ely House.
  KING RICHARD. Now put it, God, in the physician's mind
    To help him to his grave immediately!
    The lining of his coffers shall make coats
    To deck our soldiers for these Irish wars.
    Come, gentlemen, let's all go visit him.
    Pray God we may make haste, and come too late!
  ALL. Amen.                                              Exeunt




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT II. SCENE I.
London. Ely House

Enter JOHN OF GAUNT, sick, with the DUKE OF YORK, etc.

  GAUNT. Will the King come, that I may breathe my last
    In wholesome counsel to his unstaid youth?
  YORK. Vex not yourself, nor strive not with your breath;
    For all in vain comes counsel to his ear.
  GAUNT. O, but they say the tongues of dying men
    Enforce attention like deep harmony.
    Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain;
    For they breathe truth that breathe their words -in pain.
    He that no more must say is listen'd more
    Than they whom youth and ease have taught to glose;
    More are men's ends mark'd than their lives before.
    The setting sun, and music at the close,
    As the last taste of sweets, is sweetest last,
    Writ in remembrance more than things long past.
    Though Richard my life's counsel would not hear,
    My death's sad tale may yet undeaf his ear.
  YORK. No; it is stopp'd with other flattering sounds,
    As praises, of whose taste the wise are fond,
    Lascivious metres, to whose venom sound
    The open ear of youth doth always listen;
    Report of fashions in proud Italy,
    Whose manners still our tardy apish nation
    Limps after in base imitation.
    Where doth the world thrust forth a vanity-
    So it be new, there's no respect how vile-
    That is not quickly buzz'd into his ears?
    Then all too late comes counsel to be heard
    Where will doth mutiny with wit's regard.
    Direct not him whose way himself will choose.
    'Tis breath thou lack'st, and that breath wilt thou lose.
  GAUNT. Methinks I am a prophet new inspir'd,
    And thus expiring do foretell of him:
    His rash fierce blaze of riot cannot last,
    For violent fires soon burn out themselves;
    Small showers last long, but sudden storms are short;
    He tires betimes that spurs too fast betimes;
    With eager feeding food doth choke the feeder;
    Light vanity, insatiate cormorant,
    Consuming means, soon preys upon itself.
    This royal throne of kings, this scept'red isle,
    This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars,
    This other Eden, demi-paradise,
    This fortress built by Nature for herself
    Against infection and the hand of war,
    This happy breed of men, this little world,
    This precious stone set in the silver sea,
    Which serves it in the office of a wall,
    Or as a moat defensive to a house,
    Against the envy of less happier lands;
    This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England,
    This nurse, this teeming womb of royal kings,
    Fear'd by their breed, and famous by their birth,
    Renowned for their deeds as far from home,
    For Christian service and true chivalry,
    As is the sepulchre in stubborn Jewry
    Of the world's ransom, blessed Mary's Son;
    This land of such dear souls, this dear dear land,
    Dear for her reputation through the world,
    Is now leas'd out-I die pronouncing it-
    Like to a tenement or pelting farm.
    England, bound in with the triumphant sea,
    Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege
    Of wat'ry Neptune, is now bound in with shame,
    With inky blots and rotten parchment bonds;
    That England, that was wont to conquer others,
    Hath made a shameful conquest of itself.
    Ah, would the scandal vanish with my life,
    How happy then were my ensuing death!

    Enter KING and QUEEN, AUMERLE, BUSHY, GREEN, BAGOT,
                Ross, and WILLOUGHBY

  YORK. The King is come; deal mildly with his youth,
    For young hot colts being rag'd do rage the more.
  QUEEN. How fares our noble uncle Lancaster?
  KING RICHARD. What comfort, man? How is't with aged Gaunt?
  GAUNT. O, how that name befits my composition!
    Old Gaunt, indeed; and gaunt in being old.
    Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast;
    And who abstains from meat that is not gaunt?
    For sleeping England long time have I watch'd;
    Watching breeds leanness, leanness is an gaunt.
    The pleasure that some fathers feed upon
    Is my strict fast-I mean my children's looks;
    And therein fasting, hast thou made me gaunt.
    Gaunt am I for the grave, gaunt as a grave,
    Whose hollow womb inherits nought but bones.
  KING RICHARD. Can sick men play so nicely with their names?
  GAUNT. No, misery makes sport to mock itself:
    Since thou dost seek to kill my name in me,
    I mock my name, great king, to flatter thee.
  KING RICHARD. Should dying men flatter with those that live?
  GAUNT. No, no; men living flatter those that die.
  KING RICHARD. Thou, now a-dying, sayest thou flatterest me.
  GAUNT. O, no! thou diest, though I the sicker be.
  KING RICHARD. I am in health, I breathe, and see thee ill.
  GAUNT. Now He that made me knows I see thee ill;
    Ill in myself to see, and in thee seeing ill.
    Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land
    Wherein thou liest in reputation sick;
    And thou, too careless patient as thou art,
    Commit'st thy anointed body to the cure
    Of those physicians that first wounded thee:
    A thousand flatterers sit within thy crown,
    Whose compass is no bigger than thy head;
    And yet, incaged in so small a verge,
    The waste is no whit lesser than thy land.
    O, had thy grandsire with a prophet's eye
    Seen how his son's son should destroy his sons,
    From forth thy reach he would have laid thy shame,
    Deposing thee before thou wert possess'd,
    Which art possess'd now to depose thyself.
    Why, cousin, wert thou regent of the world,
    It were a shame to let this land by lease;
    But for thy world enjoying but this land,
    Is it not more than shame to shame it so?
    Landlord of England art thou now, not King.
    Thy state of law is bondslave to the law;
    And thou-
  KING RICHARD. A lunatic lean-witted fool,
    Presuming on an ague's privilege,
    Darest with thy frozen admonition
    Make pale our cheek, chasing the royal blood
    With fury from his native residence.
    Now by my seat's right royal majesty,
    Wert thou not brother to great Edward's son,
    This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head
    Should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders.
  GAUNT. O, Spare me not, my brother Edward's son,
    For that I was his father Edward's son;
    That blood already, like the pelican,
    Hast thou tapp'd out, and drunkenly carous'd.
    My brother Gloucester, plain well-meaning soul-
    Whom fair befall in heaven 'mongst happy souls!-
    May be a precedent and witness good
    That thou respect'st not spilling Edward's blood.
    Join with the present sickness that I have;
    And thy unkindness be like crooked age,
    To crop at once a too long withered flower.
    Live in thy shame, but die not shame with thee!
    These words hereafter thy tormentors be!
    Convey me to my bed, then to my grave.
    Love they to live that love and honour have.
                               Exit, borne out by his attendants
  KING RICHARD. And let them die that age and sullens have;
    For both hast thou, and both become the grave.
  YORK. I do beseech your Majesty impute his words
    To wayward sickliness and age in him.
    He loves you, on my life, and holds you dear
    As Harry Duke of Hereford, were he here.
  KING RICHARD. Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his;
    As theirs, so mine; and all be as it is.

                Enter NORTHUMBERLAND

  NORTHUMBERLAND. My liege, old Gaunt commends him to your Majesty.
  KING RICHARD. What says he?
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Nay, nothing; all is said.
    His tongue is now a stringless instrument;
    Words, life, and all, old Lancaster hath spent.
  YORK. Be York the next that must be bankrupt so!
    Though death be poor, it ends a mortal woe.
  KING RICHARD. The ripest fruit first falls, and so doth he;
    His time is spent, our pilgrimage must be.
    So much for that. Now for our Irish wars.
    We must supplant those rough rug-headed kerns,
    Which live like venom where no venom else
    But only they have privilege to live.
    And for these great affairs do ask some charge,
    Towards our assistance we do seize to us
    The plate, coin, revenues, and moveables,
    Whereof our uncle Gaunt did stand possess'd.
  YORK. How long shall I be patient? Ah, how long
    Shall tender duty make me suffer wrong?
    Not Gloucester's death, nor Hereford's banishment,
    Nor Gaunt's rebukes, nor England's private wrongs,
    Nor the prevention of poor Bolingbroke
    About his marriage, nor my own disgrace,
    Have ever made me sour my patient cheek
    Or bend one wrinkle on my sovereign's face.
    I am the last of noble Edward's sons,
    Of whom thy father, Prince of Wales, was first.
    In war was never lion rag'd more fierce,
    In peace was never gentle lamb more mild,
    Than was that young and princely gentleman.
    His face thou hast, for even so look'd he,
    Accomplish'd with the number of thy hours;
    But when he frown'd, it was against the French
    And not against his friends. His noble hand
    Did win what he did spend, and spent not that
    Which his triumphant father's hand had won.
    His hands were guilty of no kindred blood,
    But bloody with the enemies of his kin.
    O Richard! York is too far gone with grief,
    Or else he never would compare between-
  KING RICHARD. Why, uncle, what's the matter?
  YORK. O my liege,
    Pardon me, if you please; if not, I, pleas'd
    Not to be pardoned, am content withal.
    Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands
    The royalties and rights of banish'd Hereford?
    Is not Gaunt dead? and doth not Hereford live?
    Was not Gaunt just? and is not Harry true?
    Did not the one deserve to have an heir?
    Is not his heir a well-deserving son?
    Take Hereford's rights away, and take from Time
    His charters and his customary rights;
    Let not to-morrow then ensue to-day;
    Be not thyself-for how art thou a king
    But by fair sequence and succession?
    Now, afore God-God forbid I say true!-
    If you do wrongfully seize Hereford's rights,
    Call in the letters patents that he hath
    By his attorneys-general to sue
    His livery, and deny his off'red homage,
    You pluck a thousand dangers on your head,
    You lose a thousand well-disposed hearts,
    And prick my tender patience to those thoughts
    Which honour and allegiance cannot think.
  KING RICHARD. Think what you will, we seize into our hands
    His plate, his goods, his money, and his lands.
  YORK. I'll not be by the while. My liege, farewell.
    What will ensue hereof there's none can tell;
    But by bad courses may be understood
    That their events can never fall out good.              Exit
  KING RICHARD. Go, Bushy, to the Earl of Wiltshire straight;
    Bid him repair to us to Ely House
    To see this business. To-morrow next
    We will for Ireland; and 'tis time, I trow.
    And we create, in absence of ourself,
    Our Uncle York Lord Governor of England;
    For he is just, and always lov'd us well.
    Come on, our queen; to-morrow must we part;
    Be merry, for our time of stay is short.
                   Flourish. Exeunt KING, QUEEN, BUSHY, AUMERLE,
                                                GREEN, and BAGOT
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Well, lords, the Duke of Lancaster is dead.
    Ross. And living too; for now his son is Duke.
  WILLOUGHBY. Barely in title, not in revenues.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Richly in both, if justice had her right.
  ROSS. My heart is great; but it must break with silence,
    Ere't be disburdened with a liberal tongue.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Nay, speak thy mind; and let him ne'er speak more
    That speaks thy words again to do thee harm!
  WILLOUGHBY. Tends that thou wouldst speak to the Duke of Hereford?
    If it be so, out with it boldly, man;
    Quick is mine ear to hear of good towards him.
  ROSS. No good at all that I can do for him;
    Unless you call it good to pity him,
    Bereft and gelded of his patrimony.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Now, afore God, 'tis shame such wrongs are borne
    In him, a royal prince, and many moe
    Of noble blood in this declining land.
    The King is not himself, but basely led
    By flatterers; and what they will inform,
    Merely in hate, 'gainst any of us an,
    That will the King severely prosecute
    'Gainst us, our lives, our children, and our heirs.
  ROSS. The commons hath he pill'd with grievous taxes;
    And quite lost their hearts; the nobles hath he find
    For ancient quarrels and quite lost their hearts.
  WILLOUGHBY. And daily new exactions are devis'd,
    As blanks, benevolences, and I wot not what;
    But what, a God's name, doth become of this?
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Wars hath not wasted it, for warr'd he hath not,
    But basely yielded upon compromise
    That which his noble ancestors achiev'd with blows.
    More hath he spent in peace than they in wars.
  ROSS. The Earl of Wiltshire hath the realm in farm.
  WILLOUGHBY. The King's grown bankrupt like a broken man.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Reproach and dissolution hangeth over him.
  ROSS. He hath not money for these Irish wars,
    His burdenous taxations notwithstanding,
    But by the robbing of the banish'd Duke.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. His noble kinsman-most degenerate king!
    But, lords, we hear this fearful tempest sing,
    Yet seek no shelter to avoid the storm;
    We see the wind sit sore upon our sails,
    And yet we strike not, but securely perish.
  ROSS. We see the very wreck that we must suffer;
    And unavoided is the danger now
    For suffering so the causes of our wreck.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Not so; even through the hollow eyes of death
    I spy life peering; but I dare not say
    How near the tidings of our comfort is.
  WILLOUGHBY. Nay, let us share thy thoughts as thou dost ours.
  ROSS. Be confident to speak, Northumberland.
    We three are but thyself, and, speaking so,
    Thy words are but as thoughts; therefore be bold.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Then thus: I have from Le Port Blanc, a bay
    In Brittany, receiv'd intelligence
    That Harry Duke of Hereford, Rainold Lord Cobham,
    That late broke from the Duke of Exeter,
    His brother, Archbishop late of Canterbury,
    Sir Thomas Erpingham, Sir John Ramston,
    Sir John Norbery, Sir Robert Waterton, and Francis Quoint-
    All these, well furnish'd by the Duke of Britaine,
    With eight tall ships, three thousand men of war,
    Are making hither with all due expedience,
    And shortly mean to touch our northern shore.
    Perhaps they had ere this, but that they stay
    The first departing of the King for Ireland.
    If then we shall shake off our slavish yoke,
    Imp out our drooping country's broken wing,
    Redeem from broking pawn the blemish'd crown,
    Wipe off the dust that hides our sceptre's gilt,
    And make high majesty look like itself,
    Away with me in post to Ravenspurgh;
    But if you faint, as fearing to do so,
    Stay and be secret, and myself will go.
  ROSS. To horse, to horse! Urge doubts to them that fear.
  WILLOUGHBY. Hold out my horse, and I will first be there.
                                                          Exeunt




SCENE 2.
Windsor Castle

Enter QUEEN, BUSHY, and BAGOT

  BUSHY. Madam, your Majesty is too much sad.
    You promis'd, when you parted with the King,
    To lay aside life-harming heaviness
    And entertain a cheerful disposition.
  QUEEN. To please the King, I did; to please myself
    I cannot do it; yet I know no cause
    Why I should welcome such a guest as grief,
    Save bidding farewell to so sweet a guest
    As my sweet Richard. Yet again methinks
    Some unborn sorrow, ripe in fortune's womb,
    Is coming towards me, and my inward soul
    With nothing trembles. At some thing it grieves
    More than with parting from my lord the King.
  BUSHY. Each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows,
    Which shows like grief itself, but is not so;
    For sorrow's eye, glazed with blinding tears,
    Divides one thing entire to many objects,
    Like perspectives which, rightly gaz'd upon,
    Show nothing but confusion-ey'd awry,
    Distinguish form. So your sweet Majesty,
    Looking awry upon your lord's departure,
    Find shapes of grief more than himself to wail;
    Which, look'd on as it is, is nought but shadows
    Of what it is not. Then, thrice-gracious Queen,
    More than your lord's departure weep not-more is not seen;
    Or if it be, 'tis with false sorrow's eye,
    Which for things true weeps things imaginary.
  QUEEN. It may be so; but yet my inward soul
    Persuades me it is otherwise. Howe'er it be,
    I cannot but be sad; so heavy sad
    As-though, on thinking, on no thought I think-
    Makes me with heavy nothing faint and shrink.
  BUSHY. 'Tis nothing but conceit, my gracious lady.
  QUEEN. 'Tis nothing less: conceit is still deriv'd
    From some forefather grief; mine is not so,
    For nothing hath begot my something grief,
    Or something hath the nothing that I grieve;
    'Tis in reversion that I do possess-
    But what it is that is not yet known what,
    I cannot name; 'tis nameless woe, I wot.

                   Enter GREEN

  GREEN. God save your Majesty! and well met, gentlemen.
    I hope the King is not yet shipp'd for Ireland.
  QUEEN. Why hopest thou so? 'Tis better hope he is;
    For his designs crave haste, his haste good hope.
    Then wherefore dost thou hope he is not shipp'd?
  GREEN. That he, our hope, might have retir'd his power
    And driven into despair an enemy's hope
    Who strongly hath set footing in this land.
    The banish'd Bolingbroke repeals himself,
    And with uplifted arms is safe arriv'd
    At Ravenspurgh.
  QUEEN. Now God in heaven forbid!
  GREEN. Ah, madam, 'tis too true; and that is worse,
    The Lord Northumberland, his son young Henry Percy,
    The Lords of Ross, Beaumond, and Willoughby,
    With all their powerful friends, are fled to him.
  BUSHY. Why have you not proclaim'd Northumberland
    And all the rest revolted faction traitors?
  GREEN. We have; whereupon the Earl of Worcester
    Hath broken his staff, resign'd his stewardship,
    And all the household servants fled with him
    To Bolingbroke.
  QUEEN. So, Green, thou art the midwife to my woe,
    And Bolingbroke my sorrow's dismal heir.
    Now hath my soul brought forth her prodigy;
    And I, a gasping new-deliver'd mother,
    Have woe to woe, sorrow to sorrow join'd.
  BUSHY. Despair not, madam.
  QUEEN. Who shall hinder me?
    I will despair, and be at enmity
    With cozening hope-he is a flatterer,
    A parasite, a keeper-back of death,
    Who gently would dissolve the bands of life,
    Which false hope lingers in extremity.

                    Enter YORK

  GREEN. Here comes the Duke of York.
  QUEEN. With signs of war about his aged neck.
    O, full of careful business are his looks!
    Uncle, for God's sake, speak comfortable words.
  YORK. Should I do so, I should belie my thoughts.
    Comfort's in heaven; and we are on the earth,
    Where nothing lives but crosses, cares, and grief.
    Your husband, he is gone to save far off,
    Whilst others come to make him lose at home.
    Here am I left to underprop his land,
    Who, weak with age, cannot support myself.
    Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made;
    Now shall he try his friends that flatter'd him.

                   Enter a SERVINGMAN

  SERVINGMAN. My lord, your son was gone before I came.
  YORK. He was-why so go all which way it will!
    The nobles they are fled, the commons they are cold
    And will, I fear, revolt on Hereford's side.
    Sirrah, get thee to Plashy, to my sister Gloucester;
    Bid her send me presently a thousand pound.
    Hold, take my ring.
  SERVINGMAN. My lord, I had forgot to tell your lordship,
    To-day, as I came by, I called there-
    But I shall grieve you to report the rest.
  YORK. What is't, knave?
  SERVINGMAN. An hour before I came, the Duchess died.
  YORK. God for his mercy! what a tide of woes
    Comes rushing on this woeful land at once!
    I know not what to do. I would to God,
    So my untruth had not provok'd him to it,
    The King had cut off my head with my brother's.
    What, are there no posts dispatch'd for Ireland?
    How shall we do for money for these wars?
    Come, sister-cousin, I would say-pray, pardon me.
    Go, fellow, get thee home, provide some carts,
    And bring away the armour that is there.
                                                 Exit SERVINGMAN
    Gentlemen, will you go muster men?
    If I know how or which way to order these affairs
    Thus disorderly thrust into my hands,
    Never believe me. Both are my kinsmen.
    T'one is my sovereign, whom both my oath
    And duty bids defend; t'other again
    Is my kinsman, whom the King hath wrong'd,
    Whom conscience and my kindred bids to right.
    Well, somewhat we must do.-Come, cousin,
    I'll dispose of you. Gentlemen, go muster up your men
    And meet me presently at Berkeley.
    I should to Plashy too,
    But time will not permit. All is uneven,
    And everything is left at six and seven.
                                           Exeunt YORK and QUEEN
  BUSHY. The wind sits fair for news to go to Ireland.
    But none returns. For us to levy power
    Proportionable to the enemy
    Is all unpossible.
  GREEN. Besides, our nearness to the King in love
    Is near the hate of those love not the King.
  BAGOT. And that is the wavering commons; for their love
    Lies in their purses; and whoso empties them,
    By so much fills their hearts with deadly hate.
  BUSHY. Wherein the King stands generally condemn'd.
  BAGOT. If judgment lie in them, then so do we,
    Because we ever have been near the King.
  GREEN. Well, I will for refuge straight to Bristow Castle.
    The Earl of Wiltshire is already there.
  BUSHY. Thither will I with you; for little office
    Will the hateful commons perform for us,
    Except Eke curs to tear us all to pieces.
    Will you go along with us?
  BAGOT. No; I will to Ireland to his Majesty.
    Farewell. If heart's presages be not vain,
    We three here part that ne'er shall meet again.
  BUSHY. That's as York thrives to beat back Bolingbroke.
  GREEN. Alas, poor Duke! the task he undertakes
    Is numb'ring sands and drinking oceans dry.
    Where one on his side fights, thousands will fly.
    Farewell at once-for once, for all, and ever.
  BUSHY. Well, we may meet again.
  BAGOT. I fear me, never.                                Exeunt




SCENE 3.
Gloucestershire

Enter BOLINGBROKE and NORTHUMBERLAND, forces

  BOLINGBROKE. How far is it, my lord, to Berkeley now?
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Believe me, noble lord,
    I am a stranger here in Gloucestershire.
    These high wild hills and rough uneven ways
    Draws out our miles, and makes them wearisome;
    And yet your fair discourse hath been as sugar,
    Making the hard way sweet and delectable.
    But I bethink me what a weary way
    From Ravenspurgh to Cotswold will be found
    In Ross and Willoughby, wanting your company,
    Which, I protest, hath very much beguil'd
    The tediousness and process of my travel.
    But theirs is sweet'ned with the hope to have
    The present benefit which I possess;
    And hope to joy is little less in joy
    Than hope enjoy'd. By this the weary lords
    Shall make their way seem short, as mine hath done
    By sight of what I have, your noble company.
  BOLINGBROKE. Of much less value is my company
    Than your good words. But who comes here?

                 Enter HARRY PERCY

  NORTHUMBERLAND. It is my son, young Harry Percy,
    Sent from my brother Worcester, whencesoever.
    Harry, how fares your uncle?
  PERCY. I had thought, my lord, to have learn'd his health of you.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Why, is he not with the Queen?
  PERCY. No, my good lord; he hath forsook the court,
    Broken his staff of office, and dispers'd
    The household of the King.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. What was his reason?
    He was not so resolv'd when last we spake together.
  PERCY. Because your lordship was proclaimed traitor.
    But he, my lord, is gone to Ravenspurgh,
    To offer service to the Duke of Hereford;
    And sent me over by Berkeley, to discover
    What power the Duke of York had levied there;
    Then with directions to repair to Ravenspurgh.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Have you forgot the Duke of Hereford, boy?
  PERCY. No, my good lord; for that is not forgot
    Which ne'er I did remember; to my knowledge,
    I never in my life did look on him.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Then learn to know him now; this is the Duke.
  PERCY. My gracious lord, I tender you my service,
    Such as it is, being tender, raw, and young;
    Which elder days shall ripen, and confirm
    To more approved service and desert.
  BOLINGBROKE. I thank thee, gentle Percy; and be sure
    I count myself in nothing else so happy
    As in a soul rememb'ring my good friends;
    And as my fortune ripens with thy love,
    It shall be still thy true love's recompense.
    My heart this covenant makes, my hand thus seals it.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. How far is it to Berkeley? And what stir
    Keeps good old York there with his men of war?
  PERCY. There stands the castle, by yon tuft of trees,
    Mann'd with three hundred men, as I have heard;
    And in it are the Lords of York, Berkeley, and Seymour-
    None else of name and noble estimate.

                  Enter Ross and WILLOUGHBY

  NORTHUMBERLAND. Here come the Lords of Ross and Willoughby,
    Bloody with spurring, fiery-red with haste.
  BOLINGBROKE. Welcome, my lords. I wot your love pursues
    A banish'd traitor. All my treasury
    Is yet but unfelt thanks, which, more enrich'd,
    Shall be your love and labour's recompense.
  ROSS. Your presence makes us rich, most noble lord.
  WILLOUGHBY. And far surmounts our labour to attain it.
  BOLINGBROKE. Evermore thanks, the exchequer of the poor;
    Which, till my infant fortune comes to years,
    Stands for my bounty. But who comes here?

                     Enter BERKELEY

  NORTHUMBERLAND. It is my Lord of Berkeley, as I guess.
  BERKELEY. My Lord of Hereford, my message is to you.
  BOLINGBROKE. My lord, my answer is-'to Lancaster';
    And I am come to seek that name in England;
    And I must find that title in your tongue
    Before I make reply to aught you say.
  BERKELEY. Mistake me not, my lord; 'tis not my meaning
    To raze one title of your honour out.
    To you, my lord, I come-what lord you will-
    From the most gracious regent of this land,
    The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on
    To take advantage of the absent time,
    And fright our native peace with self-borne arms.

                 Enter YORK, attended

  BOLINGBROKE. I shall not need transport my words by you;
    Here comes his Grace in person. My noble uncle!
                                                     [Kneels]
  YORK. Show me thy humble heart, and not thy knee,
    Whose duty is deceivable and false.
  BOLINGBROKE. My gracious uncle!-
  YORK. Tut, tut!
    Grace me no grace, nor uncle me no uncle.
    I am no traitor's uncle; and that word 'grace'
    In an ungracious mouth is but profane.
    Why have those banish'd and forbidden legs
    Dar'd once to touch a dust of England's ground?
    But then more 'why?'-why have they dar'd to march
    So many miles upon her peaceful bosom,
    Frighting her pale-fac'd villages with war
    And ostentation of despised arms?
    Com'st thou because the anointed King is hence?
    Why, foolish boy, the King is left behind,
    And in my loyal bosom lies his power.
    Were I but now lord of such hot youth
    As when brave Gaunt, thy father, and myself
    Rescued the Black Prince, that young Mars of men,
    From forth the ranks of many thousand French,
    O, then how quickly should this arm of mine,
    Now prisoner to the palsy, chastise the
    And minister correction to thy fault!
  BOLINGBROKE My gracious uncle, let me know my fault;
    On what condition stands it and wherein?
  YORK. Even in condition of the worst degree-
    In gross rebellion and detested treason.
    Thou art a banish'd man, and here art come
    Before the expiration of thy time,
    In braving arms against thy sovereign.
  BOLINGBROKE. As I was banish'd, I was banish'd Hereford;
    But as I come, I come for Lancaster.
    And, noble uncle, I beseech your Grace
    Look on my wrongs with an indifferent eye.
    You are my father, for methinks in you
    I see old Gaunt alive. O, then, my father,
    Will you permit that I shall stand condemn'd
    A wandering vagabond; my rights and royalties
    Pluck'd from my arms perforce, and given away
    To upstart unthrifts? Wherefore was I born?
    If that my cousin king be King in England,
    It must be granted I am Duke of Lancaster.
    You have a son, Aumerle, my noble cousin;
    Had you first died, and he been thus trod down,
    He should have found his uncle Gaunt a father
    To rouse his wrongs and chase them to the bay.
    I am denied to sue my livery here,
    And yet my letters patents give me leave.
    My father's goods are all distrain'd and sold;
    And these and all are all amiss employ'd.
    What would you have me do? I am a subject,
    And I challenge law-attorneys are denied me;
    And therefore personally I lay my claim
    To my inheritance of free descent.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. The noble Duke hath been too much abused.
  ROSS. It stands your Grace upon to do him right.
  WILLOUGHBY. Base men by his endowments are made great.
  YORK. My lords of England, let me tell you this:
    I have had feeling of my cousin's wrongs,
    And labour'd all I could to do him right;
    But in this kind to come, in braving arms,
    Be his own carver and cut out his way,
    To find out right with wrong-it may not be;
    And you that do abet him in this kind
    Cherish rebellion, and are rebels all.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. The noble Duke hath sworn his coming is
    But for his own; and for the right of that
    We all have strongly sworn to give him aid;
    And let him never see joy that breaks that oath!
  YORK. Well, well, I see the issue of these arms.
    I cannot mend it, I must needs confess,
    Because my power is weak and all ill left;
    But if I could, by Him that gave me life,
    I would attach you all and make you stoop
    Unto the sovereign mercy of the King;
    But since I cannot, be it known unto you
    I do remain as neuter. So, fare you well;
    Unless you please to enter in the castle,
    And there repose you for this night.
  BOLINGBROKE. An offer, uncle, that we will accept.
    But we must win your Grace to go with us
    To Bristow Castle, which they say is held
    By Bushy, Bagot, and their complices,
    The caterpillars of the commonwealth,
    Which I have sworn to weed and pluck away.
  YORK. It may be I will go with you; but yet I'll pause,
    For I am loath to break our country's laws.
    Nor friends nor foes, to me welcome you are.
    Things past redress are now with me past care.        Exeunt




SCENE 4.
A camp in Wales

Enter EARL OF SALISBURY and a WELSH CAPTAIN

  CAPTAIN. My Lord of Salisbury, we have stay'd ten days
    And hardly kept our countrymen together,
    And yet we hear no tidings from the King;
    Therefore we will disperse ourselves. Farewell.
  SALISBURY. Stay yet another day, thou trusty Welshman;
    The King reposeth all his confidence in thee.
  CAPTAIN. 'Tis thought the King is dead; we will not stay.
    The bay trees in our country are all wither'd,
    And meteors fright the fixed stars of heaven;
    The pale-fac'd moon looks bloody on the earth,
    And lean-look'd prophets whisper fearful change;
    Rich men look sad, and ruffians dance and leap-
    The one in fear to lose what they enjoy,
    The other to enjoy by rage and war.
    These signs forerun the death or fall of kings.
    Farewell. Our countrymen are gone and fled,
    As well assur'd Richard their King is dead.             Exit
  SALISBURY. Ah, Richard, with the eyes of heavy mind,
    I see thy glory like a shooting star
    Fall to the base earth from the firmament!
    The sun sets weeping in the lowly west,
    Witnessing storms to come, woe, and unrest;
    Thy friends are fled, to wait upon thy foes;
    And crossly to thy good all fortune goes.               Exit




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT III. SCENE I.
BOLINGBROKE'S camp at Bristol

Enter BOLINGBROKE, YORK, NORTHUMBERLAND, PERCY, ROSS, WILLOUGHBY,
BUSHY and GREEN, prisoners

  BOLINGBROKE. Bring forth these men.
    Bushy and Green, I will not vex your souls-
    Since presently your souls must part your bodies-
    With too much urging your pernicious lives,
    For 'twere no charity; yet, to wash your blood
    From off my hands, here in the view of men
    I will unfold some causes of your deaths:
    You have misled a prince, a royal king,
    A happy gentleman in blood and lineaments,
    By you unhappied and disfigured clean;
    You have in manner with your sinful hours
    Made a divorce betwixt his queen and him;
    Broke the possession of a royal bed,
    And stain'd the beauty of a fair queen's cheeks
    With tears drawn from her eyes by your foul wrongs;
    Myself-a prince by fortune of my birth,
    Near to the King in blood, and near in love
    Till you did make him misinterpret me-
    Have stoop'd my neck under your injuries
    And sigh'd my English breath in foreign clouds,
    Eating the bitter bread of banishment,
    Whilst you have fed upon my signories,
    Dispark'd my parks and fell'd my forest woods,
    From my own windows torn my household coat,
    Raz'd out my imprese, leaving me no sign
    Save men's opinions and my living blood
    To show the world I am a gentleman.
    This and much more, much more than twice all this,
    Condemns you to the death. See them delivered over
    To execution and the hand of death.
  BUSHY. More welcome is the stroke of death to me
    Than Bolingbroke to England. Lords, farewell.
  GREEN. My comfort is that heaven will take our souls,
    And plague injustice with the pains of hell.
  BOLINGBROKE. My Lord Northumberland, see them dispatch'd.
           Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND, and others, with the prisoners
    Uncle, you say the Queen is at your house;
    For God's sake, fairly let her be entreated.
    Tell her I send to her my kind commends;
    Take special care my greetings be delivered.
  YORK. A gentleman of mine I have dispatch'd
    With letters of your love to her at large.
  BOLINGBROKE. Thanks, gentle uncle. Come, lords, away,
    To fight with Glendower and his complices.
    Awhile to work, and after holiday.                    Exeunt




SCENE 2.
The coast of Wales. A castle in view

Drums. Flourish and colours. Enter the KING, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE,
AUMERLE, and soldiers

  KING RICHARD. Barkloughly Castle can they this at hand?
  AUMERLE. Yea, my lord. How brooks your Grace the air
    After your late tossing on the breaking seas?
  KING RICHARD. Needs must I like it well. I weep for joy
    To stand upon my kingdom once again.
    Dear earth, I do salute thee with my hand,
    Though rebels wound thee with their horses' hoofs.
    As a long-parted mother with her child
    Plays fondly with her tears and smiles in meeting,
    So weeping-smiling greet I thee, my earth,
    And do thee favours with my royal hands.
    Feed not thy sovereign's foe, my gentle earth,
    Nor with thy sweets comfort his ravenous sense;
    But let thy spiders, that suck up thy venom,
    And heavy-gaited toads, lie in their way,
    Doing annoyance to the treacherous feet
    Which with usurping steps do trample thee;
    Yield stinging nettles to mine enemies;
    And when they from thy bosom pluck a flower,
    Guard it, I pray thee, with a lurking adder,
    Whose double tongue may with a mortal touch
    Throw death upon thy sovereign's enemies.
    Mock not my senseless conjuration, lords.
    This earth shall have a feeling, and these stones
    Prove armed soldiers, ere her native king
    Shall falter under foul rebellion's arms.
  CARLISLE. Fear not, my lord; that Power that made you king
    Hath power to keep you king in spite of all.
    The means that heaven yields must be embrac'd
    And not neglected; else, if heaven would,
    And we will not, heaven's offer we refuse,
    The proffered means of succour and redress.
  AUMERLE. He means, my lord, that we are too remiss;
    Whilst Bolingbroke, through our security,
    Grows strong and great in substance and in power.
  KING RICHARD. Discomfortable cousin! know'st thou not
    That when the searching eye of heaven is hid,
    Behind the globe, that lights the lower world,
    Then thieves and robbers range abroad unseen
    In murders and in outrage boldly here;
    But when from under this terrestrial ball
    He fires the proud tops of the eastern pines
    And darts his light through every guilty hole,
    Then murders, treasons, and detested sins,
    The cloak of night being pluck'd from off their backs,
    Stand bare and naked, trembling at themselves?
    So when this thief, this traitor, Bolingbroke,
    Who all this while hath revell'd in the night,
    Whilst we were wand'ring with the Antipodes,
    Shall see us rising in our throne, the east,
    His treasons will sit blushing in his face,
    Not able to endure the sight of day,
    But self-affrighted tremble at his sin.
    Not all the water in the rough rude sea
    Can wash the balm off from an anointed king;
    The breath of worldly men cannot depose
    The deputy elected by the Lord.
    For every man that Bolingbroke hath press'd
    To lift shrewd steel against our golden crown,
    God for his Richard hath in heavenly pay
    A glorious angel. Then, if angels fight,
    Weak men must fall; for heaven still guards the right.

                 Enter SALISBURY

    Welcome, my lord. How far off lies your power?
  SALISBURY. Nor near nor farther off, my gracious lord,
    Than this weak arm. Discomfort guides my tongue,
    And bids me speak of nothing but despair.
    One day too late, I fear me, noble lord,
    Hath clouded all thy happy days on earth.
    O, call back yesterday, bid time return,
    And thou shalt have twelve thousand fighting men!
    To-day, to-day, unhappy day, too late,
    O'erthrows thy joys, friends, fortune, and thy state;
    For all the Welshmen, hearing thou wert dead,
    Are gone to Bolingbroke, dispers'd, and fled.
  AUMERLE. Comfort, my liege, why looks your Grace so pale?
  KING RICHARD. But now the blood of twenty thousand men
    Did triumph in my face, and they are fled;
    And, till so much blood thither come again,
    Have I not reason to look pale and dead?
    All souls that will be safe, fly from my side;
    For time hath set a blot upon my pride.
  AUMERLE. Comfort, my liege; remember who you are.
  KING RICHARD. I had forgot myself; am I not King?
    Awake, thou coward majesty! thou sleepest.
    Is not the King's name twenty thousand names?
    Arm, arm, my name! a puny subject strikes
    At thy great glory. Look not to the ground,
    Ye favourites of a king; are we not high?
    High be our thoughts. I know my uncle York
    Hath power enough to serve our turn. But who comes here?

                   Enter SCROOP

  SCROOP. More health and happiness betide my liege
    Than can my care-tun'd tongue deliver him.
  KING RICHARD. Mine ear is open and my heart prepar'd.
    The worst is worldly loss thou canst unfold.
    Say, is my kingdom lost? Why, 'twas my care,
    And what loss is it to be rid of care?
    Strives Bolingbroke to be as great as we?
    Greater he shall not be; if he serve God,
    We'll serve him too, and be his fellow so.
    Revolt our subjects? That we cannot mend;
    They break their faith to God as well as us.
    Cry woe, destruction, ruin, and decay-
    The worst is death, and death will have his day.
  SCROOP. Glad am I that your Highness is so arm'd
    To bear the tidings of calamity.
    Like an unseasonable stormy day
    Which makes the silver rivers drown their shores,
    As if the world were all dissolv'd to tears,
    So high above his limits swells the rage
    Of Bolingbroke, covering your fearful land
    With hard bright steel and hearts harder than steel.
    White-beards have arm'd their thin and hairless scalps
    Against thy majesty; boys, with women's voices,
    Strive to speak big, and clap their female joints
    In stiff unwieldy arms against thy crown;
    Thy very beadsmen learn to bend their bows
    Of double-fatal yew against thy state;
    Yea, distaff-women manage rusty bills
    Against thy seat: both young and old rebel,
    And all goes worse than I have power to tell.
  KING RICHARD. Too well, too well thou tell'st a tale so in.
    Where is the Earl of Wiltshire? Where is Bagot?
    What is become of Bushy? Where is Green?
    That they have let the dangerous enemy
    Measure our confines with such peaceful steps?
    If we prevail, their heads shall pay for it.
    I warrant they have made peace with Bolingbroke.
  SCROOP. Peace have they made with him indeed, my lord.
  KING RICHARD. O villains, vipers, damn'd without redemption!
    Dogs, easily won to fawn on any man!
    Snakes, in my heart-blood warm'd, that sting my heart!
    Three Judases, each one thrice worse than Judas!
    Would they make peace? Terrible hell make war
    Upon their spotted souls for this offence!
  SCROOP. Sweet love, I see, changing his property,
    Turns to the sourest and most deadly hate.
    Again uncurse their souls; their peace is made
    With heads, and not with hands; those whom you curse
    Have felt the worst of death's destroying wound
    And lie full low, grav'd in the hollow ground.
  AUMERLE. Is Bushy, Green, and the Earl of Wiltshire dead?
  SCROOP. Ay, all of them at Bristow lost their heads.
  AUMERLE. Where is the Duke my father with his power?
  KING RICHARD. No matter where-of comfort no man speak.
    Let's talk of graves, of worms, and epitaphs;
    Make dust our paper, and with rainy eyes
    Write sorrow on the bosom of the earth.
    Let's choose executors and talk of wills;
    And yet not so-for what can we bequeath
    Save our deposed bodies to the ground?
    Our lands, our lives, and an, are Bolingbroke's.
    And nothing can we can our own but death
    And that small model of the barren earth
    Which serves as paste and cover to our bones.
    For God's sake let us sit upon the ground
    And tell sad stories of the death of kings:
    How some have been depos'd, some slain in war,
    Some haunted by the ghosts they have depos'd,
    Some poison'd by their wives, some sleeping kill'd,
    All murder'd-for within the hollow crown
    That rounds the mortal temples of a king
    Keeps Death his court; and there the antic sits,
    Scoffing his state and grinning at his pomp;
    Allowing him a breath, a little scene,
    To monarchize, be fear'd, and kill with looks;
    Infusing him with self and vain conceit,
    As if this flesh which walls about our life
    Were brass impregnable; and, humour'd thus,
    Comes at the last, and with a little pin
    Bores through his castle wall, and farewell, king!
    Cover your heads, and mock not flesh and blood
    With solemn reverence; throw away respect,
    Tradition, form, and ceremonious duty;
    For you have but mistook me all this while.
    I live with bread like you, feel want,
    Taste grief, need friends: subjected thus,
    How can you say to me I am a king?
  CARLISLE. My lord, wise men ne'er sit and wail their woes,
    But presently prevent the ways to wail.
    To fear the foe, since fear oppresseth strength,
    Gives, in your weakness, strength unto your foe,
    And so your follies fight against yourself.
    Fear and be slain-no worse can come to fight;
    And fight and die is death destroying death,
    Where fearing dying pays death servile breath.
  AUMERLE. My father hath a power; inquire of him,
    And learn to make a body of a limb.
  KING RICHARD. Thou chid'st me well. Proud Bolingbroke, I come
    To change blows with thee for our day of doom.
    This ague fit of fear is over-blown;
    An easy task it is to win our own.
    Say, Scroop, where lies our uncle with his power?
    Speak sweetly, man, although thy looks be sour.
  SCROOP. Men judge by the complexion of the sky
    The state in inclination of the day;
    So may you by my dull and heavy eye,
    My tongue hath but a heavier tale to say.
    I play the torturer, by small and small
    To lengthen out the worst that must be spoken:
    Your uncle York is join'd with Bolingbroke;
    And all your northern castles yielded up,
    And all your southern gentlemen in arms
    Upon his party.
  KING RICHARD. Thou hast said enough.
      [To AUMERLE] Beshrew thee, cousin, which didst lead me forth
    Of that sweet way I was in to despair!
    What say you now? What comfort have we now?
    By heaven, I'll hate him everlastingly
    That bids me be of comfort any more.
    Go to Flint Castle; there I'll pine away;
    A king, woe's slave, shall kingly woe obey.
    That power I have, discharge; and let them go
    To ear the land that hath some hope to grow,
    For I have none. Let no man speak again
    To alter this, for counsel is but vain.
  AUMERLE. My liege, one word.
  KING RICHARD. He does me double wrong
    That wounds me with the flatteries of his tongue.
    Discharge my followers; let them hence away,
    From Richard's night to Bolingbroke's fair day.       Exeunt




SCENE 3.
Wales. Before Flint Castle

Enter, with drum and colours, BOLINGBROKE, YORK, NORTHUMBERLAND,
and forces

  BOLINGBROKE. So that by this intelligence we learn
    The Welshmen are dispers'd; and Salisbury
    Is gone to meet the King, who lately landed
    With some few private friends upon this coast.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. The news is very fair and good, my lord.
    Richard not far from hence hath hid his head.
  YORK. It would beseem the Lord Northumberland
    To say 'King Richard.' Alack the heavy day
    When such a sacred king should hide his head!
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Your Grace mistakes; only to be brief,
    Left I his title out.
  YORK. The time hath been,
    Would you have been so brief with him, he would
    Have been so brief with you to shorten you,
    For taking so the head, your whole head's length.
  BOLINGBROKE. Mistake not, uncle, further than you should.
  YORK. Take not, good cousin, further than you should,
    Lest you mistake. The heavens are over our heads.
  BOLINGBROKE. I know it, uncle; and oppose not myself
    Against their will. But who comes here?

                    Enter PERCY

    Welcome, Harry. What, will not this castle yield?
  PIERCY. The castle royally is mann'd, my lord,
    Against thy entrance.
  BOLINGBROKE. Royally!
    Why, it contains no king?
  PERCY. Yes, my good lord,
    It doth contain a king; King Richard lies
    Within the limits of yon lime and stone;
    And with him are the Lord Aumerle, Lord Salisbury,
    Sir Stephen Scroop, besides a clergyman
    Of holy reverence; who, I cannot learn.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. O, belike it is the Bishop of Carlisle.
  BOLINGBROKE. [To NORTHUMBERLAND] Noble lord,
    Go to the rude ribs of that ancient castle;
    Through brazen trumpet send the breath of parley
    Into his ruin'd ears, and thus deliver:
    Henry Bolingbroke
    On both his knees doth kiss King Richard's hand,
    And sends allegiance and true faith of heart
    To his most royal person; hither come
    Even at his feet to lay my arms and power,
    Provided that my banishment repeal'd
    And lands restor'd again be freely granted;
    If not, I'll use the advantage of my power
    And lay the summer's dust with showers of blood
    Rain'd from the wounds of slaughtered Englishmen;
    The which how far off from the mind of Bolingbroke
    It is such crimson tempest should bedrench
    The fresh green lap of fair King Richard's land,
    My stooping duty tenderly shall show.
    Go, signify as much, while here we march
    Upon the grassy carpet of this plain.
           [NORTHUMBERLAND advances to the Castle, with a trumpet]
    Let's march without the noise of threat'ning drum,
    That from this castle's tottered battlements
    Our fair appointments may be well perus'd.
    Methinks King Richard and myself should meet
    With no less terror than the elements
    Of fire and water, when their thund'ring shock
    At meeting tears the cloudy cheeks of heaven.
    Be he the fire, I'll be the yielding water;
    The rage be his, whilst on the earth I rain
    My waters-on the earth, and not on him.
    March on, and mark King Richard how he looks.

      Parle without, and answer within; then a flourish.
      Enter on the walls, the KING, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE,
      AUMERLE, SCROOP, and SALISBURY

    See, see, King Richard doth himself appear,
    As doth the blushing discontented sun
    From out the fiery portal of the east,
    When he perceives the envious clouds are bent
    To dim his glory and to stain the track
    Of his bright passage to the occident.
  YORK. Yet he looks like a king. Behold, his eye,
    As bright as is the eagle's, lightens forth
    Controlling majesty. Alack, alack, for woe,
    That any harm should stain so fair a show!
  KING RICHARD. [To NORTHUMBERLAND] We are amaz'd; and thus long
      have we stood
    To watch the fearful bending of thy knee,
    Because we thought ourself thy lawful King;
    And if we be, how dare thy joints forget
    To pay their awful duty to our presence?
    If we be not, show us the hand of God
    That hath dismiss'd us from our stewardship;
    For well we know no hand of blood and bone
    Can gripe the sacred handle of our sceptre,
    Unless he do profane, steal, or usurp.
    And though you think that all, as you have done,
    Have torn their souls by turning them from us,
    And we are barren and bereft of friends,
    Yet know-my master, God omnipotent,
    Is mustering in his clouds on our behalf
    Armies of pestilence; and they shall strike
    Your children yet unborn and unbegot,
    That lift your vassal hands against my head
    And threat the glory of my precious crown.
    Tell Bolingbroke, for yon methinks he stands,
    That every stride he makes upon my land
    Is dangerous treason; he is come to open
    The purple testament of bleeding war;
    But ere the crown he looks for live in peace,
    Ten thousand bloody crowns of mothers' sons
    Shall ill become the flower of England's face,
    Change the complexion of her maid-pale peace
    To scarlet indignation, and bedew
    Her pastures' grass with faithful English blood.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. The King of Heaven forbid our lord the King
    Should so with civil and uncivil arms
    Be rush'd upon! Thy thrice noble cousin,
    Harry Bolingbroke, doth humbly kiss thy hand;
    And by the honourable tomb he swears
    That stands upon your royal grandsire's bones,
    And by the royalties of both your bloods,
    Currents that spring from one most gracious head,
    And by the buried hand of warlike Gaunt,
    And by the worth and honour of himself,
    Comprising all that may be sworn or said,
    His coming hither hath no further scope
    Than for his lineal royalties, and to beg
    Enfranchisement immediate on his knees;
    Which on thy royal party granted once,
    His glittering arms he will commend to rust,
    His barbed steeds to stables, and his heart
    To faithful service of your Majesty.
    This swears he, as he is a prince, is just;
    And as I am a gentleman I credit him.
  KING RICHARD. Northumberland, say thus the King returns:
    His noble cousin is right welcome hither;
    And all the number of his fair demands
    Shall be accomplish'd without contradiction.
    With all the gracious utterance thou hast
    Speak to his gentle hearing kind commends.
    [To AUMERLE] We do debase ourselves, cousin, do we not,
    To look so poorly and to speak so fair?
    Shall we call back Northumberland, and send
    Defiance to the traitor, and so die?
  AUMERLE. No, good my lord; let's fight with gentle words
    Till time lend friends, and friends their helpful swords.
  KING RICHARD. O God, O God! that e'er this tongue of mine
    That laid the sentence of dread banishment
    On yon proud man should take it off again
    With words of sooth! O that I were as great
    As is my grief, or lesser than my name!
    Or that I could forget what I have been!
    Or not remember what I must be now!
    Swell'st thou, proud heart? I'll give thee scope to beat,
    Since foes have scope to beat both thee and me.
  AUMERLE. Northumberland comes back from Bolingbroke.
  KING RICHARD. What must the King do now? Must he submit?
    The King shall do it. Must he be depos'd?
    The King shall be contented. Must he lose
    The name of king? A God's name, let it go.
    I'll give my jewels for a set of beads,
    My gorgeous palace for a hermitage,
    My gay apparel for an almsman's gown,
    My figur'd goblets for a dish of wood,
    My sceptre for a palmer's walking staff,
    My subjects for a pair of carved saints,
    And my large kingdom for a little grave,
    A little little grave, an obscure grave-
    Or I'll be buried in the king's high way,
    Some way of common trade, where subjects' feet
    May hourly trample on their sovereign's head;
    For on my heart they tread now whilst I live,
    And buried once, why not upon my head?
    Aumerle, thou weep'st, my tender-hearted cousin!
    We'll make foul weather with despised tears;
    Our sighs and they shall lodge the summer corn
    And make a dearth in this revolting land.
    Or shall we play the wantons with our woes
    And make some pretty match with shedding tears?
    As thus: to drop them still upon one place
    Till they have fretted us a pair of graves
    Within the earth; and, therein laid-there lies
    Two kinsmen digg'd their graves with weeping eyes.
    Would not this ill do well? Well, well, I see
    I talk but idly, and you laugh at me.
    Most mighty prince, my Lord Northumberland,
    What says King Bolingbroke? Will his Majesty
    Give Richard leave to live till Richard die?
    You make a leg, and Bolingbroke says ay.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. My lord, in the base court he doth attend
    To speak with you; may it please you to come down?
  KING RICHARD. Down, down I come, like glist'ring Phaethon,
    Wanting the manage of unruly jades.
    In the base court? Base court, where kings grow base,
    To come at traitors' calls, and do them grace.
    In the base court? Come down? Down, court! down, king!
    For night-owls shriek where mounting larks should sing.
                                               Exeunt from above
  BOLINGBROKE. What says his Majesty?
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Sorrow and grief of heart
    Makes him speak fondly, like a frantic man;
    Yet he is come.

          Enter the KING, and his attendants, below

  BOLINGBROKE. Stand all apart,
    And show fair duty to his Majesty.   [He kneels down]
    My gracious lord-
  KING RICHARD. Fair cousin, you debase your princely knee
    To make the base earth proud with kissing it.
    Me rather had my heart might feel your love
    Than my unpleas'd eye see your courtesy.
    Up, cousin, up; your heart is up, I know,
    [Touching his own head] Thus high at least, although your
      knee be low.
  BOLINGBROKE. My gracious lord, I come but for mine own.
  KING RICHARD. Your own is yours, and I am yours, and all.
  BOLINGBROKE. So far be mine, my most redoubted lord,
    As my true service shall deserve your love.
  KING RICHARD. Well you deserve. They well deserve to have
    That know the strong'st and surest way to get.
    Uncle, give me your hands; nay, dry your eyes:
    Tears show their love, but want their remedies.
    Cousin, I am too young to be your father,
    Though you are old enough to be my heir.
    What you will have, I'll give, and willing too;
    For do we must what force will have us do.
    Set on towards London. Cousin, is it so?
  BOLINGBROKE. Yea, my good lord.
  KING RICHARD. Then I must not say no.         Flourish. Exeunt




SCENE 4.
The DUKE OF YORK's garden

Enter the QUEEN and two LADIES

  QUEEN. What sport shall we devise here in this garden
    To drive away the heavy thought of care?
  LADY. Madam, we'll play at bowls.
  QUEEN. 'Twill make me think the world is full of rubs
    And that my fortune runs against the bias.
  LADY. Madam, we'll dance.
  QUEEN. My legs can keep no measure in delight,
    When my poor heart no measure keeps in grief;
    Therefore no dancing, girl; some other sport.
  LADY. Madam, we'll tell tales.
  QUEEN. Of sorrow or of joy?
  LADY. Of either, madam.
  QUEEN. Of neither, girl;
    For if of joy, being altogether wanting,
    It doth remember me the more of sorrow;
    Or if of grief, being altogether had,
    It adds more sorrow to my want of joy;
    For what I have I need not to repeat,
    And what I want it boots not to complain.
  LADY. Madam, I'll sing.
  QUEEN. 'Tis well' that thou hast cause;
    But thou shouldst please me better wouldst thou weep.
  LADY. I could weep, madam, would it do you good.
  QUEEN. And I could sing, would weeping do me good,
    And never borrow any tear of thee.

           Enter a GARDENER and two SERVANTS

    But stay, here come the gardeners.
    Let's step into the shadow of these trees.
    My wretchedness unto a row of pins,
    They will talk of state, for every one doth so
    Against a change: woe is forerun with woe.
                                       [QUEEN and LADIES retire]
  GARDENER. Go, bind thou up yon dangling apricocks,
    Which, like unruly children, make their sire
    Stoop with oppression of their prodigal weight;
    Give some supportance to the bending twigs.
    Go thou, and Eke an executioner
    Cut off the heads of too fast growing sprays
    That look too lofty in our commonwealth:
    All must be even in our government.
    You thus employ'd, I will go root away
    The noisome weeds which without profit suck
    The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers.
  SERVANT. Why should we, in the compass of a pale,
    Keep law and form and due proportion,
    Showing, as in a model, our firm estate,
    When our sea-walled garden, the whole land,
    Is full of weeds; her fairest flowers chok'd up,
    Her fruit trees all unprun'd, her hedges ruin'd,
    Her knots disordered, and her wholesome herbs
    Swarming with caterpillars?
  GARDENER. Hold thy peace.
    He that hath suffer'd this disorder'd spring
    Hath now himself met with the fall of leaf;
    The weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter,
    That seem'd in eating him to hold him up,
    Are pluck'd up root and all by Bolingbroke-
    I mean the Earl of Wiltshire, Bushy, Green.
  SERVANT. What, are they dead?
  GARDENER. They are; and Bolingbroke
    Hath seiz'd the wasteful King. O, what pity is it
    That he had not so trimm'd and dress'd his land
    As we this garden! We at time of year
    Do wound the bark, the skin of our fruit trees,
    Lest, being over-proud in sap and blood,
    With too much riches it confound itself;
    Had he done so to great and growing men,
    They might have Ev'd to bear, and he to taste
    Their fruits of duty. Superfluous branches
    We lop away, that bearing boughs may live;
    Had he done so, himself had home the crown,
    Which waste of idle hours hath quite thrown down.
  SERVANT. What, think you the King shall be deposed?
  GARDENER. Depress'd he is already, and depos'd
    'Tis doubt he will be. Letters came last night
    To a dear friend of the good Duke of York's
    That tell black tidings.
  QUEEN. O, I am press'd to death through want of speaking!
                                                [Coming forward]
    Thou, old Adam's likeness, set to dress this garden,
    How dares thy harsh rude tongue sound this unpleasing news?
    What Eve, what serpent, hath suggested the
    To make a second fall of cursed man?
    Why dost thou say King Richard is depos'd?
    Dar'st thou, thou little better thing than earth,
    Divine his downfall? Say, where, when, and how,
    Cam'st thou by this ill tidings? Speak, thou wretch.
  GARDENER. Pardon me, madam; little joy have
    To breathe this news; yet what I say is true.
    King Richard, he is in the mighty hold
    Of Bolingbroke. Their fortunes both are weigh'd.
    In your lord's scale is nothing but himself,
    And some few vanities that make him light;
    But in the balance of great Bolingbroke,
    Besides himself, are all the English peers,
    And with that odds he weighs King Richard down.
    Post you to London, and you will find it so;
    I speak no more than every one doth know.
  QUEEN. Nimble mischance, that art so light of foot,
    Doth not thy embassage belong to me,
    And am I last that knows it? O, thou thinkest
    To serve me last, that I may longest keep
    Thy sorrow in my breast. Come, ladies, go
    To meet at London London's King in woe.
    What, was I born to this, that my sad look
    Should grace the triumph of great Bolingbroke?
    Gard'ner, for telling me these news of woe,
    Pray God the plants thou graft'st may never grow!
                                         Exeunt QUEEN and LADIES
  GARDENER. Poor Queen, so that thy state might be no worse,
    I would my skill were subject to thy curse.
    Here did she fall a tear; here in this place
    I'll set a bank of rue, sour herb of grace.
    Rue, even for ruth, here shortly shall be seen,
    In the remembrance of a weeping queen.                Exeunt




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT IV. SCENE 1.
Westminster Hall

Enter, as to the Parliament, BOLINGBROKE, AUMERLE, NORTHUMBERLAND, PERCY,
FITZWATER, SURREY, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE, the ABBOT OF WESTMINSTER,
and others; HERALD, OFFICERS, and BAGOT

  BOLINGBROKE. Call forth Bagot.
    Now, Bagot, freely speak thy mind-
    What thou dost know of noble Gloucester's death;
    Who wrought it with the King, and who perform'd
    The bloody office of his timeless end.
  BAGOT. Then set before my face the Lord Aumerle.
  BOLINGBROKE. Cousin, stand forth, and look upon that man.
  BAGOT. My Lord Aumerle, I know your daring tongue
    Scorns to unsay what once it hath deliver'd.
    In that dead time when Gloucester's death was plotted
    I heard you say 'Is not my arm of length,
    That reacheth from the restful English Court
    As far as Calais, to mine uncle's head?'
    Amongst much other talk that very time
    I heard you say that you had rather refuse
    The offer of an hundred thousand crowns
    Than Bolingbroke's return to England;
    Adding withal, how blest this land would be
    In this your cousin's death.
  AUMERLE. Princes, and noble lords,
    What answer shall I make to this base man?
    Shall I so much dishonour my fair stars
    On equal terms to give him chastisement?
    Either I must, or have mine honour soil'd
    With the attainder of his slanderous lips.
    There is my gage, the manual seal of death
    That marks thee out for hell. I say thou liest,
    And will maintain what thou hast said is false
    In thy heart-blood, through being all too base
    To stain the temper of my knightly sword.
  BOLINGBROKE. Bagot, forbear; thou shalt not take it up.
  AUMERLE. Excepting one, I would he were the best
    In all this presence that hath mov'd me so.
  FITZWATER. If that thy valour stand on sympathy,
    There is my gage, Aumerle, in gage to thine.
    By that fair sun which shows me where thou stand'st,
    I heard thee say, and vauntingly thou spak'st it,
    That thou wert cause of noble Gloucester's death.
    If thou deniest it twenty times, thou liest;
    And I will turn thy falsehood to thy heart,
    Where it was forged, with my rapier's point.
  AUMERLE. Thou dar'st not, coward, live to see that day.
  FITZWATER. Now, by my soul, I would it were this hour.
  AUMERLE. Fitzwater, thou art damn'd to hell for this.
  PERCY. Aumerle, thou liest; his honour is as true
    In this appeal as thou art an unjust;
    And that thou art so, there I throw my gage,
    To prove it on thee to the extremest point
    Of mortal breathing. Seize it, if thou dar'st.
  AUMERLE. An if I do not, may my hands rot of
    And never brandish more revengeful steel
    Over the glittering helmet of my foe!
  ANOTHER LORD. I task the earth to the like, forsworn Aumerle;
    And spur thee on with fun as many lies
    As may be halloa'd in thy treacherous ear
    From sun to sun. There is my honour's pawn;
    Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
  AUMERLE. Who sets me else? By heaven, I'll throw at all!
    I have a thousand spirits in one breast
    To answer twenty thousand such as you.
  SURREY. My Lord Fitzwater, I do remember well
    The very time Aumerle and you did talk.
  FITZWATER. 'Tis very true; you were in presence then,
    And you can witness with me this is true.
  SURREY. As false, by heaven, as heaven itself is true.
  FITZWATER. Surrey, thou liest.
  SURREY. Dishonourable boy!
    That lie shall lie so heavy on my sword
    That it shall render vengeance and revenge
    Till thou the lie-giver and that lie do he
    In earth as quiet as thy father's skull.
    In proof whereof, there is my honour's pawn;
    Engage it to the trial, if thou dar'st.
  FITZWATER. How fondly dost thou spur a forward horse!
    If I dare eat, or drink, or breathe, or live,
    I dare meet Surrey in a wilderness,
    And spit upon him whilst I say he lies,
    And lies, and lies. There is my bond of faith,
    To tie thee to my strong correction.
    As I intend to thrive in this new world,
    Aumerle is guilty of my true appeal.
    Besides, I heard the banish'd Norfolk say
    That thou, Aumerle, didst send two of thy men
    To execute the noble Duke at Calais.
  AUMERLE. Some honest Christian trust me with a gage
    That Norfolk lies. Here do I throw down this,
    If he may be repeal'd to try his honour.
  BOLINGBROKE. These differences shall all rest under gage
    Till Norfolk be repeal'd-repeal'd he shall be
    And, though mine enemy, restor'd again
    To all his lands and signories. When he is return'd,
    Against Aumerle we will enforce his trial.
  CARLISLE. That honourable day shall never be seen.
    Many a time hath banish'd Norfolk fought
    For Jesu Christ in glorious Christian field,
    Streaming the ensign of the Christian cross
    Against black pagans, Turks, and Saracens;
    And, toil'd with works of war, retir'd himself
    To Italy; and there, at Venice, gave
    His body to that pleasant country's earth,
    And his pure soul unto his captain, Christ,
    Under whose colours he had fought so long.
  BOLINGBROKE. Why, Bishop, is Norfolk dead?
  CARLISLE. As surely as I live, my lord.
  BOLINGBROKE. Sweet peace conduct his sweet soul to the bosom
    Of good old Abraham! Lords appellants,
    Your differences shall all rest under gage
    Till we assign you to your days of trial

                 Enter YORK, attended

  YORK. Great Duke of Lancaster, I come to the
    From plume-pluck'd Richard, who with willing soul
    Adopts thee heir, and his high sceptre yields
    To the possession of thy royal hand.
    Ascend his throne, descending now from him-
    And long live Henry, fourth of that name!
  BOLINGBROKE. In God's name, I'll ascend the regal throne.
  CARLISLE. Marry, God forbid!
    Worst in this royal presence may I speak,
    Yet best beseeming me to speak the truth.
    Would God that any in this noble presence
    Were enough noble to be upright judge
    Of noble Richard! Then true noblesse would
    Learn him forbearance from so foul a wrong.
    What subject can give sentence on his king?
    And who sits here that is not Richard's subject?
    Thieves are not judg'd but they are by to hear,
    Although apparent guilt be seen in them;
    And shall the figure of God's majesty,
    His captain, steward, deputy elect,
    Anointed, crowned, planted many years,
    Be judg'd by subject and inferior breath,
    And he himself not present? O, forfend it, God,
    That in a Christian climate souls refin'd
    Should show so heinous, black, obscene a deed!
    I speak to subjects, and a subject speaks,
    Stirr'd up by God, thus boldly for his king.
    My Lord of Hereford here, whom you call king,
    Is a foul traitor to proud Hereford's king;
    And if you crown him, let me prophesy-
    The blood of English shall manure the ground,
    And future ages groan for this foul act;
    Peace shall go sleep with Turks and infidels,
    And in this seat of peace tumultuous wars
    Shall kin with kin and kind with kind confound;
    Disorder, horror, fear, and mutiny,
    Shall here inhabit, and this land be call'd
    The field of Golgotha and dead men's skulls.
    O, if you raise this house against this house,
    It will the woefullest division prove
    That ever fell upon this cursed earth.
    Prevent it, resist it, let it not be so,
    Lest child, child's children, cry against you woe.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Well have you argued, sir; and, for your pains,
    Of capital treason we arrest you here.
    My Lord of Westminster, be it your charge
    To keep him safely till his day of trial.
    May it please you, lords, to grant the commons' suit?
  BOLINGBROKE. Fetch hither Richard, that in common view
    He may surrender; so we shall proceed
    Without suspicion.
  YORK. I will be his conduct.                              Exit
  BOLINGBROKE. Lords, you that here are under our arrest,
    Procure your sureties for your days of answer.
    Little are we beholding to your love,
    And little look'd for at your helping hands.

      Re-enter YORK, with KING RICHARD, and OFFICERS
                bearing the regalia

  KING RICHARD. Alack, why am I sent for to a king,
    Before I have shook off the regal thoughts
    Wherewith I reign'd? I hardly yet have learn'd
    To insinuate, flatter, bow, and bend my knee.
    Give sorrow leave awhile to tutor me
    To this submission. Yet I well remember
    The favours of these men. Were they not mine?
    Did they not sometime cry 'All hail!' to me?
    So Judas did to Christ; but he, in twelve,
    Found truth in all but one; I, in twelve thousand, none.
    God save the King! Will no man say amen?
    Am I both priest and clerk? Well then, amen.
    God save the King! although I be not he;
    And yet, amen, if heaven do think him me.
    To do what service am I sent for hither?
  YORK. To do that office of thine own good will
    Which tired majesty did make thee offer-
    The resignation of thy state and crown
    To Henry Bolingbroke.
  KING RICHARD. Give me the crown. Here, cousin, seize the crown.
    Here, cousin,
    On this side my hand, and on that side thine.
    Now is this golden crown like a deep well
    That owes two buckets, filling one another;
    The emptier ever dancing in the air,
    The other down, unseen, and full of water.
    That bucket down and fun of tears am I,
    Drinking my griefs, whilst you mount up on high.
  BOLINGBROKE. I thought you had been willing to resign.
  KING RICHARD. My crown I am; but still my griefs are mine.
    You may my glories and my state depose,
    But not my griefs; still am I king of those.
  BOLINGBROKE. Part of your cares you give me with your crown.
  KING RICHARD. Your cares set up do not pluck my cares down.
    My care is loss of care, by old care done;
    Your care is gain of care, by new care won.
    The cares I give I have, though given away;
    They tend the crown, yet still with me they stay.
  BOLINGBROKE. Are you contented to resign the crown?
  KING RICHARD. Ay, no; no, ay; for I must nothing be;
    Therefore no no, for I resign to thee.
    Now mark me how I will undo myself:
    I give this heavy weight from off my head,
    And this unwieldy sceptre from my hand,
    The pride of kingly sway from out my heart;
    With mine own tears I wash away my balm,
    With mine own hands I give away my crown,
    With mine own tongue deny my sacred state,
    With mine own breath release all duteous oaths;
    All pomp and majesty I do forswear;
    My manors, rents, revenues, I forgo;
    My acts, decrees, and statutes, I deny.
    God pardon all oaths that are broke to me!
    God keep all vows unbroke are made to thee!
    Make me, that nothing have, with nothing griev'd,
    And thou with all pleas'd, that hast an achiev'd.
    Long mayst thou live in Richard's seat to sit,
    And soon lie Richard in an earthly pit.
    God save King Henry, unking'd Richard says,
    And send him many years of sunshine days!
    What more remains?
  NORTHUMBERLAND. No more; but that you read
    These accusations, and these grievous crimes
    Committed by your person and your followers
    Against the state and profit of this land;
    That, by confessing them, the souls of men
    May deem that you are worthily depos'd.
  KING RICHARD. Must I do so? And must I ravel out
    My weav'd-up follies? Gentle Northumberland,
    If thy offences were upon record,
    Would it not shame thee in so fair a troop
    To read a lecture of them? If thou wouldst,
    There shouldst thou find one heinous article,
    Containing the deposing of a king
    And cracking the strong warrant of an oath,
    Mark'd with a blot, damn'd in the book of heaven.
    Nay, all of you that stand and look upon me
    Whilst that my wretchedness doth bait myself,
    Though some of you, with Pilate, wash your hands,
    Showing an outward pity-yet you Pilates
    Have here deliver'd me to my sour cross,
    And water cannot wash away your sin.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. My lord, dispatch; read o'er these
    articles.
  KING RICHARD. Mine eyes are full of tears; I cannot see.
    And yet salt water blinds them not so much
    But they can see a sort of traitors here.
    Nay, if I turn mine eyes upon myself,
    I find myself a traitor with the rest;
    For I have given here my soul's consent
    T'undeck the pompous body of a king;
    Made glory base, and sovereignty a slave,
    Proud majesty a subject, state a peasant.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. My lord-
  KING RICHARD. No lord of thine, thou haught insulting man,
    Nor no man's lord; I have no name, no tide-
    No, not that name was given me at the font-
    But 'tis usurp'd. Alack the heavy day,
    That I have worn so many winters out,
    And know not now what name to call myself!
    O that I were a mockery king of snow,
    Standing before the sun of Bolingbroke
    To melt myself away in water drops!
    Good king, great king, and yet not greatly good,
    An if my word be sterling yet in England,
    Let it command a mirror hither straight,
    That it may show me what a face I have
    Since it is bankrupt of his majesty.
  BOLINGBROKE. Go some of you and fetch a looking-glass.
                                               Exit an attendant
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Read o'er this paper while the glass doth come.
  KING RICHARD. Fiend, thou torments me ere I come to hell.
  BOLINGBROKE. Urge it no more, my Lord Northumberland.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. The Commons will not, then, be satisfied.
  KING RICHARD. They shall be satisfied. I'll read enough,
    When I do see the very book indeed
    Where all my sins are writ, and that's myself.

                Re-enter attendant with glass

    Give me that glass, and therein will I read.
    No deeper wrinkles yet? Hath sorrow struck
    So many blows upon this face of mine
    And made no deeper wounds? O flatt'ring glass,
    Like to my followers in prosperity,
    Thou dost beguile me! Was this face the face
    That every day under his household roof
    Did keep ten thousand men? Was this the face
    That like the sun did make beholders wink?
    Is this the face which fac'd so many follies
    That was at last out-fac'd by Bolingbroke?
    A brittle glory shineth in this face;
    As brittle as the glory is the face;
                        [Dashes the glass against the ground]
    For there it is, crack'd in a hundred shivers.
    Mark, silent king, the moral of this sport-
    How soon my sorrow hath destroy'd my face.
  BOLINGBROKE. The shadow of your sorrow hath destroy'd
    The shadow of your face.
  KING RICHARD. Say that again.
    The shadow of my sorrow? Ha! let's see.
    'Tis very true: my grief lies all within;
    And these external manner of laments
    Are merely shadows to the unseen grief
    That swells with silence in the tortur'd soul.
    There lies the substance; and I thank thee, king,
    For thy great bounty, that not only giv'st
    Me cause to wail, but teachest me the way
    How to lament the cause. I'll beg one boon,
    And then be gone and trouble you no more.
    Shall I obtain it?
  BOLINGBROKE. Name it, fair cousin.
  KING RICHARD. Fair cousin! I am greater than a king;
    For when I was a king, my flatterers
    Were then but subjects; being now a subject,
    I have a king here to my flatterer.
    Being so great, I have no need to beg.
  BOLINGBROKE. Yet ask.
  KING RICHARD. And shall I have?
  BOLINGBROKE. You shall.
  KING RICHARD. Then give me leave to go.
  BOLINGBROKE. Whither?
  KING RICHARD. Whither you will, so I were from your sights.
  BOLINGBROKE. Go, some of you convey him to the Tower.
  KING RICHARD. O, good! Convey! Conveyers are you all,
    That rise thus nimbly by a true king's fall.
                     Exeunt KING RICHARD, some Lords and a Guard
  BOLINGBROKE. On Wednesday next we solemnly set down
    Our coronation. Lords, prepare yourselves.
                    Exeunt all but the ABBOT OF WESTMINSTER, the
                                 BISHOP OF CARLISLE, and AUMERLE
  ABBOT. A woeful pageant have we here beheld.
  CARLISLE. The woe's to come; the children yet unborn
    Shall feel this day as sharp to them as thorn.
  AUMERLE. You holy clergymen, is there no plot
    To rid the realm of this pernicious blot?
  ABBOT. My lord,
    Before I freely speak my mind herein,
    You shall not only take the sacrament
    To bury mine intents, but also to effect
    Whatever I shall happen to devise.
    I see your brows are full of discontent,
    Your hearts of sorrow, and your eyes of tears.
    Come home with me to supper; I will lay
    A plot shall show us all a merry day.                 Exeunt




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT V. SCENE 1.
London. A street leading to the Tower

Enter the QUEEN, with her attendants

  QUEEN. This way the King will come; this is the way
    To Julius Caesar's ill-erected tower,
    To whose flint bosom my condemned lord
    Is doom'd a prisoner by proud Bolingbroke.
    Here let us rest, if this rebellious earth
    Have any resting for her true King's queen.

            Enter KING RICHARD and Guard

    But soft, but see, or rather do not see,
    My fair rose wither. Yet look up, behold,
    That you in pity may dissolve to dew,
    And wash him fresh again with true-love tears.
    Ah, thou, the model where old Troy did stand;
    Thou map of honour, thou King Richard's tomb,
    And not King Richard; thou most beauteous inn,
    Why should hard-favour'd grief be lodg'd in thee,
    When triumph is become an alehouse guest?
  KING RICHARD. Join not with grief, fair woman, do not so,
    To make my end too sudden. Learn, good soul,
    To think our former state a happy dream;
    From which awak'd, the truth of what we are
    Shows us but this: I am sworn brother, sweet,
    To grim Necessity; and he and
    Will keep a league till death. Hie thee to France,
    And cloister thee in some religious house.
    Our holy lives must win a new world's crown,
    Which our profane hours here have thrown down.
  QUEEN. What, is my Richard both in shape and mind
    Transform'd and weak'ned? Hath Bolingbroke depos'd
    Thine intellect? Hath he been in thy heart?
    The lion dying thrusteth forth his paw
    And wounds the earth, if nothing else, with rage
    To be o'erpow'r'd; and wilt thou, pupil-like,
    Take the correction mildly, kiss the rod,
    And fawn on rage with base humility,
    Which art a lion and the king of beasts?
  KING RICHARD. A king of beasts, indeed! If aught but beasts,
    I had been still a happy king of men.
    Good sometimes queen, prepare thee hence for France.
    Think I am dead, and that even here thou takest,
    As from my death-bed, thy last living leave.
    In winter's tedious nights sit by the fire
    With good old folks, and let them tell thee tales
    Of woeful ages long ago betid;
    And ere thou bid good night, to quit their griefs
    Tell thou the lamentable tale of me,
    And send the hearers weeping to their beds;
    For why, the senseless brands will sympathize
    The heavy accent of thy moving tongue,
    And in compassion weep the fire out;
    And some will mourn in ashes, some coal-black,
    For the deposing of a rightful king.

             Enter NORTHUMBERLAND attended

  NORTHUMBERLAND. My lord, the mind of Bolingbroke is chang'd;
    You must to Pomfret, not unto the Tower.
    And, madam, there is order ta'en for you:
    With all swift speed you must away to France.
  KING RICHARD. Northumberland, thou ladder wherewithal
    The mounting Bolingbroke ascends my throne,
    The time shall not be many hours of age
    More than it is, ere foul sin gathering head
    Shall break into corruption. Thou shalt think
    Though he divide the realm and give thee half
    It is too little, helping him to all;
    And he shall think that thou, which knowest the way
    To plant unrightful kings, wilt know again,
    Being ne'er so little urg'd, another way
    To pluck him headlong from the usurped throne.
    The love of wicked men converts to fear;
    That fear to hate; and hate turns one or both
    To worthy danger and deserved death.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. My guilt be on my head, and there an end.
    Take leave, and part; for you must part forthwith.
  KING RICHARD. Doubly divorc'd! Bad men, you violate
    A twofold marriage-'twixt my crown and me,
    And then betwixt me and my married wife.
    Let me unkiss the oath 'twixt thee and me;
    And yet not so, for with a kiss 'twas made.
    Part us, Northumberland; I towards the north,
    Where shivering cold and sickness pines the clime;
    My wife to France, from whence set forth in pomp,
    She came adorned hither like sweet May,
    Sent back like Hallowmas or short'st of day.
  QUEEN. And must we be divided? Must we part?
  KING RICHARD. Ay, hand from hand, my love, and heart from heart.
  QUEEN. Banish us both, and send the King with me.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. That were some love, but little policy.
  QUEEN. Then whither he goes thither let me go.
  KING RICHARD. So two, together weeping, make one woe.
    Weep thou for me in France, I for thee here;
    Better far off than near, be ne'er the near.
    Go, count thy way with sighs; I mine with groans.
  QUEEN. So longest way shall have the longest moans.
  KING RICHARD. Twice for one step I'll groan, the way being short,
    And piece the way out with a heavy heart.
    Come, come, in wooing sorrow let's be brief,
    Since, wedding it, there is such length in grief.
    One kiss shall stop our mouths, and dumbly part;
    Thus give I mine, and thus take I thy heart.
  QUEEN. Give me mine own again; 'twere no good part
    To take on me to keep and kill thy heart.
    So, now I have mine own again, be gone.
    That I may strive to kill it with a groan.
  KING RICHARD. We make woe wanton with this fond delay.
    Once more, adieu; the rest let sorrow say.            Exeunt




SCENE 2.
The DUKE OF YORK's palace

Enter the DUKE OF YORK and the DUCHESS

  DUCHESS. My Lord, you told me you would tell the rest,
    When weeping made you break the story off,
    Of our two cousins' coming into London.
  YORK. Where did I leave?
  DUCHESS. At that sad stop, my lord,
    Where rude misgoverned hands from windows' tops
    Threw dust and rubbish on King Richard's head.
  YORK. Then, as I said, the Duke, great Bolingbroke,
    Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed
    Which his aspiring rider seem'd to know,
    With slow but stately pace kept on his course,
    Whilst all tongues cried 'God save thee, Bolingbroke!'
    You would have thought the very windows spake,
    So many greedy looks of young and old
    Through casements darted their desiring eyes
    Upon his visage; and that all the walls
    With painted imagery had said at once
    'Jesu preserve thee! Welcome, Bolingbroke!'
    Whilst he, from the one side to the other turning,
    Bareheaded, lower than his proud steed's neck,
    Bespake them thus, 'I thank you, countrymen.'
    And thus still doing, thus he pass'd along.
  DUCHESS. Alack, poor Richard! where rode he the whilst?
  YORK. As in a theatre the eyes of men
    After a well-grac'd actor leaves the stage
    Are idly bent on him that enters next,
    Thinking his prattle to be tedious;
    Even so, or with much more contempt, men's eyes
    Did scowl on gentle Richard; no man cried 'God save him!'
    No joyful tongue gave him his welcome home;
    But dust was thrown upon his sacred head;
    Which with such gentle sorrow he shook off,
    His face still combating with tears and smiles,
    The badges of his grief and patience,
    That had not God, for some strong purpose, steel'd
    The hearts of men, they must perforce have melted,
    And barbarism itself have pitied him.
    But heaven hath a hand in these events,
    To whose high will we bound our calm contents.
    To Bolingbroke are we sworn subjects now,
    Whose state and honour I for aye allow.
  DUCHESS. Here comes my son Aumerle.
  YORK. Aumerle that was
    But that is lost for being Richard's friend,
    And madam, you must call him Rudand now.
    I am in Parliament pledge for his truth
    And lasting fealty to the new-made king.

                  Enter AUMERLE

  DUCHESS. Welcome, my son. Who are the violets now
    That strew the green lap of the new come spring?
  AUMERLE. Madam, I know not, nor I greatly care not.
    God knows I had as lief be none as one.
  YORK. Well, bear you well in this new spring of time,
    Lest you be cropp'd before you come to prime.
    What news from Oxford? Do these justs and triumphs hold?
  AUMERLE. For aught I know, my lord, they do.
  YORK. You will be there, I know.
  AUMERLE. If God prevent not, I purpose so.
  YORK. What seal is that that without thy bosom?
    Yea, look'st thou pale? Let me see the writing.
  AUMERLE. My lord, 'tis nothing.
  YORK. No matter, then, who see it.
    I will be satisfied; let me see the writing.
  AUMERLE. I do beseech your Grace to pardon me;
    It is a matter of small consequence
    Which for some reasons I would not have seen.
  YORK. Which for some reasons, sir, I mean to see.
    I fear, I fear-
  DUCHESS. What should you fear?
    'Tis nothing but some bond that he is ent'red into
    For gay apparel 'gainst the triumph-day.
  YORK. Bound to himself! What doth he with a bond
    That he is bound to? Wife, thou art a fool.
    Boy, let me see the writing.
  AUMERLE. I do beseech you, pardon me; I may not show it.
  YORK. I will be satisfied; let me see it, I say.
                [He plucks it out of his bosom, and reads it]
    Treason, foul treason! Villain! traitor! slave!
  DUCHESS. What is the matter, my lord?
  YORK. Ho! who is within there?

                    Enter a servant

    Saddle my horse.
    God for his mercy, what treachery is here!
  DUCHESS. Why, York, what is it, my lord?
  YORK. Give me my boots, I say; saddle my horse.
                                                    Exit servant
    Now, by mine honour, by my life, my troth,
    I will appeach the villain.
  DUCHESS. What is the matter?
  YORK. Peace, foolish woman.
  DUCHESS. I will not peace. What is the matter, Aumerle?
  AUMERLE. Good mother, be content; it is no more
    Than my poor life must answer.
  DUCHESS. Thy life answer!
  YORK. Bring me my boots. I will unto the King.

              His man enters with his boots

  DUCHESS. Strike him, Aumerle. Poor boy, thou art amaz'd.
    Hence, villain! never more come in my sight.
  YORK. Give me my boots, I say.
  DUCHESS. Why, York, what wilt thou do?
    Wilt thou not hide the trespass of thine own?
    Have we more sons? or are we like to have?
    Is not my teeming date drunk up with time?
    And wilt thou pluck my fair son from mine age
    And rob me of a happy mother's name?
    Is he not like thee? Is he not thine own?
  YORK. Thou fond mad woman,
    Wilt thou conceal this dark conspiracy?
    A dozen of them here have ta'en the sacrament,
    And interchangeably set down their hands
    To kill the King at Oxford.
  DUCHESS. He shall be none;
    We'll keep him here. Then what is that to him?
  YORK. Away, fond woman! were he twenty times my son
    I would appeach him.
  DUCHESS. Hadst thou groan'd for him
    As I have done, thou wouldst be more pitiful.
    But now I know thy mind: thou dost suspect
    That I have been disloyal to thy bed
    And that he is a bastard, not thy son.
    Sweet York, sweet husband, be not of that mind.
    He is as like thee as a man may be
    Not like to me, or any of my kin,
    And yet I love him.
  YORK. Make way, unruly woman!                             Exit
  DUCHESS. After, Aumerle! Mount thee upon his horse;
    Spur post, and get before him to the King,
    And beg thy pardon ere he do accuse thee.
    I'll not be long behind; though I be old,
    I doubt not but to ride as fast as York;
    And never will I rise up from the ground
    Till Bolingbroke have pardon'd thee. Away, be gone.
                                                          Exeunt




SCENE 3.
Windsor Castle

Enter BOLINGBROKE as King, PERCY, and other LORDS

  BOLINGBROKE. Can no man tell me of my unthrifty son?
    'Tis full three months since I did see him last.
    If any plague hang over us, 'tis he.
    I would to God, my lords, he might be found.
    Inquire at London, 'mongst the taverns there,
    For there, they say, he daily doth frequent
    With unrestrained loose companions,
    Even such, they say, as stand in narrow lanes
    And beat our watch and rob our passengers,
    Which he, young wanton and effeminate boy,
    Takes on the point of honour to support
    So dissolute a crew.
  PERCY. My lord, some two days since I saw the Prince,
    And told him of those triumphs held at Oxford.
  BOLINGBROKE. And what said the gallant?
  PERCY. His answer was, he would unto the stews,
    And from the common'st creature pluck a glove
    And wear it as a favour; and with that
    He would unhorse the lustiest challenger.
  BOLINGBROKE. As dissolute as desperate; yet through both
    I see some sparks of better hope, which elder years
    May happily bring forth. But who comes here?

                Enter AUMERLE amazed

  AUMERLE. Where is the King?
  BOLINGBROKE. What means our cousin that he stares and looks
    So wildly?
  AUMERLE. God save your Grace! I do beseech your Majesty,
    To have some conference with your Grace alone.
  BOLINGBROKE. Withdraw yourselves, and leave us here alone.
                                          Exeunt PERCY and LORDS
    What is the matter with our cousin now?
  AUMERLE. For ever may my knees grow to the earth,
                                                    [Kneels]
    My tongue cleave to my roof within my mouth,
    Unless a pardon ere I rise or speak.
  BOLINGBROKE. Intended or committed was this fault?
    If on the first, how heinous e'er it be,
    To win thy after-love I pardon thee.
  AUMERLE. Then give me leave that I may turn the key,
    That no man enter till my tale be done.
  BOLINGBROKE. Have thy desire.
            [The DUKE OF YORK knocks at the door and crieth]
  YORK. [Within] My liege, beware; look to thyself;
    Thou hast a traitor in thy presence there.
  BOLINGBROKE. [Drawing] Villain, I'll make thee safe.
  AUMERLE. Stay thy revengeful hand; thou hast no cause to fear.
  YORK. [Within] Open the door, secure, foolhardy King.
    Shall I, for love, speak treason to thy face?
    Open the door, or I will break it open.

                    Enter YORK

  BOLINGBROKE. What is the matter, uncle? Speak;
    Recover breath; tell us how near is danger,
    That we may arm us to encounter it.
  YORK. Peruse this writing here, and thou shalt know
    The treason that my haste forbids me show.
  AUMERLE. Remember, as thou read'st, thy promise pass'd.
    I do repent me; read not my name there;
    My heart is not confederate with my hand.
  YORK. It was, villain, ere thy hand did set it down.
    I tore it from the traitor's bosom, King;
    Fear, and not love, begets his penitence.
    Forget to pity him, lest thy pity prove
    A serpent that will sting thee to the heart.
  BOLINGBROKE. O heinous, strong, and bold conspiracy!
    O loyal father of a treacherous son!
    Thou sheer, immaculate, and silver fountain,
    From whence this stream through muddy passages
    Hath held his current and defil'd himself!
    Thy overflow of good converts to bad;
    And thy abundant goodness shall excuse
    This deadly blot in thy digressing son.
  YORK. So shall my virtue be his vice's bawd;
    And he shall spend mine honour with his shame,
    As thriftless sons their scraping fathers' gold.
    Mine honour lives when his dishonour dies,
    Or my sham'd life in his dishonour lies.
    Thou kill'st me in his life; giving him breath,
    The traitor lives, the true man's put to death.
  DUCHESS. [Within] I What ho, my liege, for God's sake, let me in.
  BOLINGBROKE. What shrill-voic'd suppliant makes this eager cry?
  DUCHESS. [Within] A woman, and thine aunt, great King; 'tis I.
    Speak with me, pity me, open the door.
    A beggar begs that never begg'd before.
  BOLINGBROKE. Our scene is alt'red from a serious thing,
    And now chang'd to 'The Beggar and the King.'
    My dangerous cousin, let your mother in.
    I know she is come to pray for your foul sin.
  YORK. If thou do pardon whosoever pray,
    More sins for this forgiveness prosper may.
    This fest'red joint cut off, the rest rest sound;
    This let alone will all the rest confound.

                 Enter DUCHESS

  DUCHESS. O King, believe not this hard-hearted man!
    Love loving not itself, none other can.
  YORK. Thou frantic woman, what dost thou make here?
    Shall thy old dugs once more a traitor rear?
  DUCHESS. Sweet York, be patient. Hear me, gentle liege.
                                                     [Kneels]
  BOLINGBROKE. Rise up, good aunt.
  DUCHESS. Not yet, I thee beseech.
    For ever will I walk upon my knees,
    And never see day that the happy sees
    Till thou give joy; until thou bid me joy
    By pardoning Rutland, my transgressing boy.
  AUMERLE. Unto my mother's prayers I bend my knee.
                                                     [Kneels]
  YORK. Against them both, my true joints bended be.
                                                     [Kneels]
    Ill mayst thou thrive, if thou grant any grace!
  DUCHESS. Pleads he in earnest? Look upon his face;
    His eyes do drop no tears, his prayers are in jest;
    His words come from his mouth, ours from our breast.
    He prays but faintly and would be denied;
    We pray with heart and soul, and all beside.
    His weary joints would gladly rise, I know;
    Our knees still kneel till to the ground they grow.
    His prayers are full of false hypocrisy;
    Ours of true zeal and deep integrity.
    Our prayers do out-pray his; then let them have
    That mercy which true prayer ought to have.
  BOLINGBROKE. Good aunt, stand up.
  DUCHESS. do not say 'stand up';
    Say 'pardon' first, and afterwards 'stand up.'
    An if I were thy nurse, thy tongue to teach,
    'Pardon' should be the first word of thy speech.
    I never long'd to hear a word till now;
    Say 'pardon,' King; let pity teach thee how.
    The word is short, but not so short as sweet;
    No word like 'pardon' for kings' mouths so meet.
  YORK. Speak it in French, King, say 'pardonne moy.'
  DUCHESS. Dost thou teach pardon pardon to destroy?
    Ah, my sour husband, my hard-hearted lord,
    That sets the word itself against the word!
    Speak 'pardon' as 'tis current in our land;
    The chopping French we do not understand.
    Thine eye begins to speak, set thy tongue there;
    Or in thy piteous heart plant thou thine ear,
    That hearing how our plaints and prayers do pierce,
    Pity may move thee 'pardon' to rehearse.
  BOLINGBROKE. Good aunt, stand up.
  DUCHESS. I do not sue to stand;
    Pardon is all the suit I have in hand.
  BOLINGBROKE. I pardon him, as God shall pardon me.
  DUCHESS. O happy vantage of a kneeling knee!
    Yet am I sick for fear. Speak it again.
    Twice saying 'pardon' doth not pardon twain,
    But makes one pardon strong.
  BOLINGBROKE. With all my heart
    I pardon him.
  DUCHESS. A god on earth thou art.
  BOLINGBROKE. But for our trusty brother-in-law and the Abbot,
    With all the rest of that consorted crew,
    Destruction straight shall dog them at the heels.
    Good uncle, help to order several powers
    To Oxford, or where'er these traitors are.
    They shall not live within this world, I swear,
    But I will have them, if I once know where.
    Uncle, farewell; and, cousin, adieu;
    Your mother well hath pray'd, and prove you true.
  DUCHESS. Come, my old son; I pray God make thee new.      Exeunt




SCENE 4.
Windsor Castle

Enter SIR PIERCE OF EXTON and a servant

  EXTON. Didst thou not mark the King, what words he spake?
    'Have I no friend will rid me of this living fear?'
    Was it not so?
  SERVANT. These were his very words.
  EXTON. 'Have I no friend?' quoth he. He spake it twice
    And urg'd it twice together, did he not?
  SERVANT. He did.
  EXTON. And, speaking it, he wishtly look'd on me,
    As who should say 'I would thou wert the man
    That would divorce this terror from my heart';
    Meaning the King at Pomfret. Come, let's go.
    I am the King's friend, and will rid his foe.         Exeunt




SCENE 5.
Pomfret Castle. The dungeon of the Castle

Enter KING RICHARD

  KING RICHARD. I have been studying how I may compare
    This prison where I live unto the world
    And, for because the world is populous
    And here is not a creature but myself,
    I cannot do it. Yet I'll hammer it out.
    My brain I'll prove the female to my soul,
    My soul the father; and these two beget
    A generation of still-breeding thoughts,
    And these same thoughts people this little world,
    In humours like the people of this world,
    For no thought is contented. The better sort,
    As thoughts of things divine, are intermix'd
    With scruples, and do set the word itself
    Against the word,
    As thus: 'Come, little ones'; and then again,
    'It is as hard to come as for a camel
    To thread the postern of a small needle's eye.'
    Thoughts tending to ambition, they do plot
    Unlikely wonders: how these vain weak nails
    May tear a passage through the flinty ribs
    Of this hard world, my ragged prison walls;
    And, for they cannot, die in their own pride.
    Thoughts tending to content flatter themselves
    That they are not the first of fortune's slaves,
    Nor shall not be the last; like silly beggars
    Who, sitting in the stocks, refuge their shame,
    That many have and others must sit there;
    And in this thought they find a kind of ease,
    Bearing their own misfortunes on the back
    Of such as have before endur'd the like.
    Thus play I in one person many people,
    And none contented. Sometimes am I king;
    Then treasons make me wish myself a beggar,
    And so I am. Then crushing penury
    Persuades me I was better when a king;
    Then am I king'd again; and by and by
    Think that I am unking'd by Bolingbroke,
    And straight am nothing. But whate'er I be,
    Nor I, nor any man that but man is,
    With nothing shall be pleas'd till he be eas'd
    With being nothing.                    [The music plays]
    Music do I hear?
    Ha, ha! keep time. How sour sweet music is
    When time is broke and no proportion kept!
    So is it in the music of men's lives.
    And here have I the daintiness of ear
    To check time broke in a disorder'd string;
    But, for the concord of my state and time,
    Had not an ear to hear my true time broke.
    I wasted time, and now doth time waste me;
    For now hath time made me his numb'ring clock:
    My thoughts are minutes; and with sighs they jar
    Their watches on unto mine eyes, the outward watch,
    Whereto my finger, like a dial's point,
    Is pointing still, in cleansing them from tears.
    Now sir, the sound that tells what hour it is
    Are clamorous groans which strike upon my heart,
    Which is the bell. So sighs, and tears, and groans,
    Show minutes, times, and hours; but my time
    Runs posting on in Bolingbroke's proud joy,
    While I stand fooling here, his Jack of the clock.
    This music mads me. Let it sound no more;
    For though it have holp madmen to their wits,
    In me it seems it will make wise men mad.
    Yet blessing on his heart that gives it me!
    For 'tis a sign of love; and love to Richard
    Is a strange brooch in this all-hating world.

              Enter a GROOM of the stable

  GROOM. Hail, royal Prince!
  KING RICHARD. Thanks, noble peer!
    The cheapest of us is ten groats too dear.
    What art thou? and how comest thou hither,
    Where no man never comes but that sad dog
    That brings me food to make misfortune live?
  GROOM. I was a poor groom of thy stable, King,
    When thou wert king; who, travelling towards York,
    With much ado at length have gotten leave
    To look upon my sometimes royal master's face.
    O, how it ern'd my heart, when I beheld,
    In London streets, that coronation-day,
    When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary-
    That horse that thou so often hast bestrid,
    That horse that I so carefully have dress'd!
  KING RICHARD. Rode he on Barbary? Tell me, gentle friend,
    How went he under him?
  GROOM. So proudly as if he disdain'd the ground.
  KING RICHARD. So proud that Bolingbroke was on his back!
    That jade hath eat bread from my royal hand;
    This hand hath made him proud with clapping him.
    Would he not stumble? would he not fall down,
    Since pride must have a fall, and break the neck
    Of that proud man that did usurp his back?
    Forgiveness, horse! Why do I rail on thee,
    Since thou, created to be aw'd by man,
    Wast born to bear? I was not made a horse;
    And yet I bear a burden like an ass,
    Spurr'd, gall'd, and tir'd, by jauncing Bolingbroke.

              Enter KEEPER with meat

  KEEPER. Fellow, give place; here is no longer stay.
  KING RICHARD. If thou love me, 'tis time thou wert away.
  GROOM. my tongue dares not, that my heart shall say.
 Exit
  KEEPER. My lord, will't please you to fall to?
  KING RICHARD. Taste of it first as thou art wont to do.
  KEEPER. My lord, I dare not. Sir Pierce of Exton,
    Who lately came from the King, commands the contrary.
  KING RICHARD. The devil take Henry of Lancaster and thee!
    Patience is stale, and I am weary of it.
                                           [Beats the KEEPER]
  KEEPER. Help, help, help!
    The murderers, EXTON and servants, rush in, armed
  KING RICHARD. How now! What means death in this rude assault?
    Villain, thy own hand yields thy death's instrument.
                         [Snatching a weapon and killing one]
    Go thou and fill another room in hell.
              [He kills another, then EXTON strikes him down]
    That hand shall burn in never-quenching fire
    That staggers thus my person. Exton, thy fierce hand
    Hath with the King's blood stain'd the King's own land.
    Mount, mount, my soul! thy seat is up on high;
    Whilst my gross flesh sinks downward, here to die.
                                                       [Dies]
  EXTON. As full of valour as of royal blood.
    Both have I spill'd. O, would the deed were good!
    For now the devil, that told me I did well,
    Says that this deed is chronicled in hell.
    This dead King to the living King I'll bear.
    Take hence the rest, and give them burial here.       Exeunt




SCENE 6.
Windsor Castle

Flourish. Enter BOLINGBROKE, the DUKE OF YORK, With other LORDS
and attendants

  BOLINGBROKE. Kind uncle York, the latest news we hear
    Is that the rebels have consum'd with fire
    Our town of Ciceter in Gloucestershire;
    But whether they be ta'en or slain we hear not.

              Enter NORTHUMBERLAND

    Welcome, my lord. What is the news?
  NORTHUMBERLAND. First, to thy sacred state wish I all happiness.
    The next news is, I have to London sent
    The heads of Salisbury, Spencer, Blunt, and Kent.
    The manner of their taking may appear
    At large discoursed in this paper here.
  BOLINGBROKE. We thank thee, gentle Percy, for thy pains;
    And to thy worth will add right worthy gains.

                  Enter FITZWATER

  FITZWATER. My lord, I have from Oxford sent to London
    The heads of Brocas and Sir Bennet Seely;
    Two of the dangerous consorted traitors
    That sought at Oxford thy dire overthrow.
  BOLINGBROKE. Thy pains, Fitzwater, shall not be forgot;
    Right noble is thy merit, well I wot.

         Enter PERCY, With the BISHOP OF CARLISLE

  PERCY. The grand conspirator, Abbot of Westminster,
    With clog of conscience and sour melancholy,
    Hath yielded up his body to the grave;
    But here is Carlisle living, to abide
    Thy kingly doom, and sentence of his pride.
  BOLINGBROKE. Carlisle, this is your doom:
    Choose out some secret place, some reverend room,
    More than thou hast, and with it joy thy life;
    So as thou liv'st in peace, die free from strife;
    For though mine enemy thou hast ever been,
    High sparks of honour in thee have I seen.

      Enter EXTON, with attendants, hearing a coffin

  EXTON. Great King, within this coffin I present
    Thy buried fear. Herein all breathless lies
    The mightiest of thy greatest enemies,
    Richard of Bordeaux, by me hither brought.
  BOLINGBROKE. Exton, I thank thee not; for thou hast wrought
    A deed of slander with thy fatal hand
    Upon my head and all this famous land.
  EXTON. From your own mouth, my lord, did I this deed.
  BOLINGBROKE. They love not poison that do poison need,
    Nor do I thee. Though I did wish him dead,
    I hate the murderer, love him murdered.
    The guilt of conscience take thou for thy labour,
    But neither my good word nor princely favour;
    With Cain go wander thorough shades of night,
    And never show thy head by day nor light.
    Lords, I protest my soul is full of woe
    That blood should sprinkle me to make me grow.
    Come, mourn with me for what I do lament,
    And put on sullen black incontinent.
    I'll make a voyage to the Holy Land,
    To wash this blood off from my guilty hand.
    March sadly after; grace my mournings here
    In weeping after this untimely bier.                  Exeunt

THE END