Manually labeled 50 lines of sentiment out of hamlet.txt

For out set of 50 lines, only 14/50 (30%) of those lines were mislabeled.
For out of the 14 line only 2 (13%) were mislabeling sentiment (labeling positive when it is actually negative or vise versa)

One thing that I encountered when labeling the data was that sentiment is very hard to retreive from the text and much of it is either non-existant or very subtle. This can show that using sentiment dictionaries to identify the main, large expressions of either positive or negative sentiment can be very effective. For further tuning we can analyze context of sentiment words to identify cases when sentiment attribution is not important.

The use of early modern english in these Shakespearian plays made sentiment attribution difficult even when being interpereted manually. This is something to consider when running the application on different types of plays.

preprocessing:

Create Playvis Project and Load in file
Format paper and mark down beginning of character lines.
Go through all character lines and extract character objects.
Perform sentiment analysis on each character object.
Output all data to json

pv = PlayVis(sys.argv[1], 'output.txt')
    pv.format_paper()
    pv.find_characters()
    #print pv.character_lines
    #for character in pv.characteracters:
        #if character.lines:
           #print character.__dict__
    pv.sentiment_analysis()
    pv.to_json()


json and vis results:

The PlayVis application managed to collect and output a list of events for each play that was given as input. With further investigation we managed to find some descrepancies in our data set. After some tuning of the application, the output was consistantly feeding lists of events to PlayVis's cloud based visualization research engine. With meaningful event based data extracted from our Gutenburg texts, using D3.js; PlayVis is then able to create an animated and interactive visualication of character interactions over the course of the play. This visualization includes features such as the interactions them selves, prominence of each character, sentiment received by other characters, and some meta-data on each character such as their name.



